Eat a live frog, every morning, and nothing worse will happen to you all day.

A fly by night leaves no shadow beyond a doubt.

I'll smoke when the pope's wife takes the pill.

Beauty times brains equals a constant.

Nostalgia just isn't what it used to be.

--Herb Caen  How much does it cost to ride an IO bus?  2 Bits.

Designed with your mind in mind by people who have in mind what you  should have in mind.

"That we can comprehend the little we know already is mindboggling in itself." -- Tom Gates Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny.

Hell hath no fury like a woman beaten out of a million dollars.

When the only tool you have is a hammer, it is tempting to treat everything as if it were a nail.

Don't try to have the last word.

You might get it.

A poet who reads his verse in public may have other nasty habits.

"We are getting into semantics again.

If we use words, there is a very grave danger they will be misinterpreted." -- H. R.

Haldeman, testifying in his own defense.

Person who falls in blast furnace is certain to feel overwrought.

Long computations which yield 0 (zero) are probably all for naught.

Person who arrives at party two hours late will probably find he has been beaten to the punch.

When Snow White turns on with the dwarfs she probably winds up feeling dopey.

President Ford has noted that there are too many economic pundits and forecasters and has decided on an excess prophets tax.

Worth seeing?  Yes, but not worth going to see.

Now and then an innocent man is sent to the legislature.

He was so narrow-minded he could see through a keyhole with two eyes.

There are more old drunkards than old doctors.

He missed an invaluable opportunity to hold his tongue.

There is no lawyer who cannot take two sides.

With Congress, every time they make a joke it's a law; and every time they make a law it's a joke.

A radical is a person with both feet firmly planted in the air.

How wonderful opera would be if there were no singers.

What is my loftiest ambition?  I've always wanted to throw an egg at an electric fan.

Conversation is the slowest form of human communication.

Lady A: Mr.

C, you are quite drunk.

Mr.

C.: And you are very ugly, but indisputably in the morning I will be quite sober.

Your ignorance cramps my conversation.

Reading is thinking with someone else's head instead of one's own.

A person will sometimes devote all his life to the development of one part of his body - the wishbone.

A mother takes twenty years to make a man of her boy, and another woman makes a fool of him in twenty minutes.

There is one thing more exasperating than a spouse who can cook and won't, and that's a spouse who can't cook and will.

The famous politician was trying to save both his faces.

Sex is nature's way of saying Hi!'.

Disclose classified information only when a NEED TO KNOW exists.

Biggest security gap - an open mouth.

Regnant populi.

(The people rule.) Pregnant ropuli.

(The snake will soon lay eggs.) Ditat Deus.

(God enriches.) Post proelium, praemium.

(After the battle, the reward.) Facta, non verba.

Sum quod eris.

(I am what you will be.) Auribus teneo lupum.

(I hold a wolf by the ears.) Vigilia pretium libertatis.

(Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.) Populus vult decipi.

(The people like to be deceived.) Fidelity: A virtue peculiar to those who are about to be betrayed.

Forgetfulness: A gift of God bestowed upon debtors in compensation for their destitution of conscience.

The good die young - because they see it's no use living if you've got to be good.

The thing that takes up the least amount of time and causes the most amount of trouble is sex.

Drawing on my fine command of language, I said nothing.

It took me fifteen  years to discover I  had no talent for  writing, but I couldln't give it up because by that time I was too famous.

Acquaintance: a person whom we know well enough to borrow from, but not well enough to lend to.

The most important service rendered by the press is that of educating people to approach printed matter with distrust.

The optimist proclaims that we live in the best of all possible worlds, and the pessimist fears this is true.

In marriage, as in war, it is permitted to take every advantage of the enemy.

He looked at me as if I was a side dish he hadn't ordered.

It was a book to kill time for those who liked it better dead.

He walks as if balancing the family tree on his nose.

The plural of spouse is spice.

There's so much to say but your eyes keep interrupting me.

Friends: people who borrow my books and set wet glasses on them.

A holding company is a thing where you hand an accomplice the goods while the policeman searches you.

My notion of a wife at forty is that a man should be able to change her, like a bank note, for two twenties.

Troubles are like babies; they only grow by nursing.

"When a man says he had pleasure with a woman he does not mean conversation." Samuel Johnson To laugh at men of sense is the privilege of fools.

Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all.

Let a fool hold his tongue and he will pass for a sage.

Dawn:   The time when men of reason go to bed.

Certain old men prefer to rise at about that time, taking a cold bath and a long walk with an empty stomach, and otherwise mortifying the flesh.

They then point with pride to these practices as the cause of their sturdy health and ripe years; the truth being that they are hearty and old, not because of their habits, but in spite of them.

The reason we find only robust persons doing this thing is that it has killed all the others who have tried it.

What kind of sound does a sub-atomic duck make? Quark!! How many IBM CPUs does it take to execute a program? Ten.

Nine to hold it down, and one to cut its head off.

The only people who listen to both sides of an argument are the neighbors.

With clothes the new are best, with friends the old are best.

Cynic: A blackguard whose faulty vision sees things as they are, not as they ought to be.

Hence the custom among the Scythians of plucking out a cynic's eyes to improve his vision.

The rising people, hot and out of breath, Roared round the palace:  "Liberty or death!" "If death will do," the King said, "let me reign; You'll have, I'm sure, no reason to complain." Frosh:  "Lemme have a 10-mfd.

capacitor." Salesman:  "Will you pay for it now?" Frosh:  "Naw, charge it." Today is a good day to bribe a high ranking public official.

The universe is laughing behind your back.

You can call her an outdoor girl if she has the bloom of youth on her cheeks and the cheeks of youth in her bloomers.

Might as well be frank, monsieur.

It would take a miracle to get you out of Casablanca and the Germans have outlawed miracles.

A venerable old Jewish gentleman was day-dreaming while sunning himself on a bench on the boardwalk at Alantic City.

His reverie was disturbed when another man approached and asked, "Can I join you?" "What's the matter, maybe I'm, coming apart??" Let not the sands of time get in your lunch.

Standing on head makes smile of frown, but rest of face also upside down A critic is a legless man who teaches running.

It is a truly wise man who does not play leap frog with a unicorn.

Let him who takes the Plunge remember to return it by Tuesday.

The decision doesn't have to be logical, it was unanimous.

How can you work when the system's so crowded? HE WHO LAUGHS, LASTS.

The best prophet of the future is the past.

ONTOGENY RECAPITULATES PHILOGENY -- OR, IS THAT ONTOLOGY RECAPITULATES PHILOLOGY...??? Even the smallest candle burns brighter in the dark.

To be is to do.

I.

Kant To do is to be.

J.

P.

Sartre Do be do be do.

F.

Sinatra X E  DU DX  takes the place of normal sex! U E  DU DX  takes the place of normal sex! I do desire we may be better strangers.

Assassination is the extreme form of censorship.

An asylum for the sane would be empty.

Council for the defence was prepared to prove:  1) He shot in self defence, 2) The police did it and stuck the gun in his hand, and 3) He was 100 miles away when it happened.

The churches must learn humility as well as teach it.

If all economists were laid end to end, they would not reach a conclusion.

May you live all the days of your life.

Never speak ill of yourself;  your friends will always say enough on that subject.

Fleas can be taught nearly anything that a congressperson can.

His money is twice tainted: 'taint yours and 'taint mine.

Little nips of whiskey, little drops of gin, Make a lady wonder where on earth she's bin.

Living in the past has one thing in its favour - it's cheaper.

Now I lay me back to sleep, The speaker's dull, the subject's deep.

If he should stop before I wake, Give me a nudge for goodness' sake.

Los Angeles:  Seventeen suburbs in search of a city.

How can I take an interest in my work when I don't like it? It's a useless but absolutely vital precaution.

Speaking of poison, I'll see that you get some fresh breakfast immediately.

Jay:  Did you hear the one about the Polish athelete who was so proud of his gold medal that he had it bronzed? Banacek:  No, how does it go?  PARKINSON'S LAW:  Work expands to fill the time available for its completion.

PARKINSON'S LAW, MODIFIED: The junk you have will expand to fill the available space.

THE PETER PRINCIPLE: In every hierarchy, each employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence.

CHEOPS' LAW: Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.

MURPHY'S LAW: If something can go wrong, it will.

WEILER'S LAW: Nothing is impossible for the man who does not have to do it himself.

FINAGLE'S LAW: Once a job is fouled up, anything done to improve it makes it worse.

RUDIN'S LAW: In a crisis that forces a choice to be made among alternative courses of action, most people will choose the worst one possible.

UNNAMED LAW: If it happens, it must be possible.

CLARKE'S THIRD LAW: Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishible from magic.

GUMPERSON'S LAW: The outcome of a given desired probability will be inverse to the degree of desirability.

(After a salary raise, you will have less money at the end of the month than you had before.) * (The more a recruit knows about a given subject, the better chance * he has of being assigned to something else.) CUTLER WEBSTER'S LAW: There are two sides to every argument unless a man is personally involved, in which case there is only one.

ALBRECHT'S LAW: Social innovations tend to the level of minimum tolerable well being.

PATRICKS'S THEOREM: If the experiment works, you must be using the wrong equipment.

SKINNER'S CONSTANT: (also Fynnegan's Finagling Factor) That quantity which, when multiplied by, divided by, added to, or subtracted from the answer you got, gives the answer you should have gotton.

HORNER'S FIVE THUMB POSTULATE: Experience varies directly with the equipment ruined.

FLAOLE'S LAW OF THE PERVERSITY OF INANIMATE OBJECTS: Any inanimate object, regardless of its composition or configuration, may be expected to perform at any time - in a totally unexpected manner for reasons that are either entirely obscure or also completely mysterious.

ALLEN'S AXIOM: When all else fails, read the instructions.

THE SPARE PARTS PRINCIPLE: The accessability during recovery of small parts which fall from the workbench, varies directly with the size of the part, and inversely with its importance to the completion of the work underway.

THE COMPENSATION COROLLARY: The experiment must be considered a success if  no more than 50% of the observed measurements must be discarded to obtain a correspondence with theory.

THE ORDERING PRINCIPLE: Those supplies necessary for yesterday's experiment must be ordered by no later than noon tomorrow.

THE ULTIMATE PRINCIPLE: By definition, when you are investigating the unknown - you do not know what you will find.

THE FUTILITY FACTOR: No experiment is ever a complete failure - it can always serve as a bad example.

Why did the chicken cross the road half way? He wanted to lay it on the line.

System stopping for 2 minutes, 1 minute ago.

YOUR SUBSYSTEM HAS DIED.....

Startrek makes your sterile NEW FORTRAN H EXTENDED - GO TO STATEMENTS ARE NOW ILLEGAL.

SEE ASPNEWS FOR DETAILS.

Allison's Precept The best simple-minded test of expertise in a particular area is the ability to win money in a series of bets on future occurrences in that area.

Corollary to Anthony's Law On the way to the corner, any dropped tool will first always strike your toes.

Army Axiom Any order that can be misunderstood has been misunderstood.

Axiom of the Pipe   (Trischmann's Paradox) A pipe gives a wise man time to think and a fool something to stick in his mouth.

Baker's Law Misery no longer loves company.

Nowadays it insists on it.

Barber's Laws of Backpacking The integral of the gravitational potential taken around any loop trail you choose to hike always comes out positive.

Any stone in your boot always migrates against the pressure gradient to exactly the point of most pressure.

The weight of your pack increases in direct proportion to the amount of food you consume from it.

If you run out of food, the pack weight goes on increasing anyway.

The number of stones in your boot is directly proportional to the number of hours you have been on the trail.

Backpacking - The size of each of the stones in your boot is directly proportional to the number of hours you have been on the trail.

The remaining distance to your chosen campsite remains constant as twilight approaches.

The net weight of your boots is proportional to the cube of the number of hours you have been on the trail.

When you arrive at your chosen campsite, it is full.

Forthoffer's Cynical Summary of Barzun's Laws 1)  That which has not yet been taught directly can never be taught directly.

2)  If at first you don't succeed, you will never succeed.

Baxter's First Law Government intervention in the free market always leads to a lower national standard of living.

Baxter's Second Law The adoption of fractional gold reserves in a currency system always leads to depreciation, devaluation, demonetization and, ultimately, to complete destruction of that currency.

Baxter's Third Law In a free market good money always drives bad money out of circulation.

Becker's Law It is much harder to find a job than to keep one.

Beifeld's Principle The probability of a young man meeting a desirable and receptive young female increases by pyramidal progression when he is already in the company of (1) a date, (2) his wife, and (3) a better looking and richer male friend.

Bicycle Law All bicycles weigh 50 pounds: A 30-pound bicycle needs a 20-pound lock and chain.

A 40-pound bicycle needs a 10-pound lock and chain.

A 50-pound bicycle needs no lock or chain.

Blaauw's Law Established technology tends to persist in spite of new technology.

Booker's Law An ounce of application is worth a ton of abstraction.

Boren's Laws 1)  When in doubt, mumble.

2)  When in trouble, delegate.

3)  When in charge, ponder.

Brien's First Law At some time in the life cycle of virtually every organization, its ability to succeed in spite of itself runs out.

Brook's Law Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.

Brown's Law of Business Success Our customer's paperwork is profit.

Our own paperwork is loss.

Bucy's Law Nothing is ever accomplished by a reasonable man.

Bustlin' Billy's Bogus Beliefs 1)  The organization of any program reflects the organization of the people who develop it.

2)  There is no such thing as a "dirty capitalist," only a capitalist.

3)  Anything is possible, but nothing is easy.

4)  Capitalism can exist in one of only two states -- welfare or warfare.

5)  I'd rather go whoring than warring.

6)  History proves nothing.

Bye's First Law of Model Railroading Anytime you wish to demonstrate something, the number of faults is proportional to the number of viewers.

Bye's Second Law of Model Railroading The desire for modeling a prototype is inversely proportional to the decline of the prototype.

Cahn's Axiom When all else fails, read the instructions.

Camp's Law A coup that is known in advance is a coup that does not take place.

Canada Bill Jones' Motto It's morally wrong to allow suckers to keep their money.

Canada Bill Jones' Supplement A Smith and Wesson beats four aces.

Cheop's Law Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.

Chisholm's Law of Human Interaction Anytime things appear to be going better you have overlooked something.

Chisholm's Third Law Proposals, as understood by the proposer, will be judged otherwise by others.

Corollary 1:  If you explain so clearly that nobody can misunderstand, somebody will.

Corollary 2:  If you do something which you are sure will meet with everyone's approval, somebody won't like it.

Corollary 3:  Procedures devised to implement the purpose won't quite work.

Churchill's Commentary on Man Man will occasionally stumble over the truth but most of the time he will pick himself up and continue on.

I STOPPED HERE Clarke's First Law When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right.

When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.

Clarke's Second Law The only way to discover the limits of the possible is to go beyond them into the impossible.

Clarke's Third Law Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.

Clarke's Law of Revolutionary Ideas Every revolutionary idea - in Science, Politics, Art or Whatever - evokes three stages of reaction.

They may be summed up by the three phrases: 1)  "It is completely impossible -- don't waste my time." 2)  "It is possible, but it is not worth doing." 3)  "I said it was a good idea all along." Cohen's Law What really matters is the name you succeed in imposing on the facts -- not the facts themselves.

Cole's Law Thinly sliced cabbage.

Commoner's Three Laws of Ecology 1)  No action is without side-effects.

2)  Nothing ever goes away.

3)  There is no free lunch.

Cook's Law Much work -- much food, little work -- little food, no work -- burial at sea.

Cornuelle's Law Authority tends to assign jobs to those least able to do them.

Crane's Law   (Friedman's Reiteration) There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.

Diogenes' First Dictum The more heavily a man is supposed to be taxed, the more power he has to escape being taxed.

Diogenes' Second Dictum If a taxpayer thinks he can cheat safely, he probably will.

Dow's Law In a hierarchical organization, the higher the level, the greater the confusion.

Dunne's Law The territory behind rhetoric is too often mined with equivocation.

Ehrman's Corollary to Ginsberg's Theorem 1)  Things will get worse before they get better.

2)  Who said things would get better.

Ettorre's Observation The other line moves faster.

Evan's Law of Politics When team members are finally in a position to help the team, it turns out they have quit the team.

Everitt's Form of the Second Law of Thermodynamics Confusion (entropy) is always increasing in society.

Only if someone or something works extremely hard can this confusion be reduced to order in a limited region.

Nevertheless, this effort will still result in an increase in the total confusion of society at large.

Extended Epstein-Heisenberg Principle In an R & D orbit, only 2 of the existing 3 parameters can be defined simultaneously.

The parameters are: task, time and resources ($).

Farber's First Law Give him an inch and he'll screw you.

Farber's Second Law A hand in the bush is worth two anywhere else.

Farber's Third Law We're all going down the same road in different directions.

Farber's Fourth Law Necessity is the mother of strange bedfellows.

The Fifth Rule You have taken yourself too seriously.

Finagle's First Law If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.

Finagle's Second Law No matter what result is anticipated, there will always be someone eager to (a) misinterpret it, (b) fake it, or (c) believe it happened to his own pet theory.

Finagle's Third Law In any collection of data, the figure most obviously correct, beyond all need of checking, is the mistake.

Corollary 1:  No one whom you ask for help will see it.

Corollary 2:  Everyone who stops by with unsought advice will see it immediately.

Finagle's Fourth Law Once a job is fouled up, anything done to improve it only makes it worse.

Finagle's Rules In case of doubt, make it sound convincing.

Experiments should be reproducible.

They should all fail in the same way.

Do not believe in miracles.

Rely on them.

First Law of Bicycling No matter which way you ride it's uphill and against the wind.

First Law of Bridge It's always the partner's fault.

First Law of Canoeing   (Alfred Andrews' Canoeing Postulate) No matter which direction you start it's always against the wind coming back.

First Law of Debate Never argue with a fool.

People might not know the difference.

First Law of Office Holders Get re-elected.

Fitz-Gibbon's Law Creativity varies inversely with the number of cooks involved with the broth.

Flap's Law Any inanimate object, regardless of its position or configuration, may be expected to perform at any time in a totally unexpected manner for reasons that are either entirely obscure or else completely mysterious.

Fortis' Three Great Lies of Life 1)  Money isn't everything.

2)  It's great to be a Negro.

3)  I'm only going to put it in a little way.

Fourteenth Corollary of Atwood's General Law of Dynamic Negatives No books are lost by loaning except those you particularly wanted to keep.

Franklin's Rule Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall not be disappointed.

Gilb's Laws of Unreliability 1)  Computers are unreliable, but humans are even more unreliable.

Corollary:  At the source of every error which is blamed on the  computer you will find at least two human errors,  including the error of blaming it on the computer.

2)  Any system which depends on human reliability is unreliable.

Ginsberg's Theorem 1)  You can't win.

2)  You can't break even.

3)  You can't even quit the game.

Golden Rules of Indulgence Everything in excess!  To enjoy the full flavor of life, take big bites.

Moderation is for monks.

Yield to temptation; it may never pass your way again.

Gray's Law of Programming n+1 trivial tasks are expected to be accomplished in the same time as n trivial tasks.

Logg's Rebuttal to Gray's Law of Programming n+1 trivial tasks take twice as long as n trivial tasks.

Gresham's Law Trivial matters are handled promptly; important matters are never solved.

Whenver possible blame the hardware.

Grosch's Law Computing power increases as the square of the cost.

If you want to do it twice as cheaply, you have to do it four times as fast.

Gummidge'e Law The amount of expertise varies in inverse proportion to the number of statements understood by the general public.

Gumperson's Law The probability of anything happening is in inverse ratio to its desirability.

Hacker's Law of Personnel Anyone having supervisory responsibility for the completion of a task will invariably protest that more resources are needed.

Hagerty's Law If you lose your temper at a newspaper columnist, he'll get rich or famous or both.

Haldane's Law The Universe is not only queerer than we imagine; it is queerer than we CAN imagine.

Harper's Magazine's Law You never find an article until you replace it.

Hartley's First Law You can lead a horse to water, but if you can get him to float on his back you've got something.

Hartley's Second Law Never sleep with anyone crazier than yourself.

Harvard Law Under the most rigorously controlled conditions of pressure, temperature, volume, humidity, and other variables, the organism will do as it damn well pleases.

Heller's Law The first myth of management is that it exists.

Hendrickson's Law If a problem causes many meetings, the meetings eventually become more important than the problem.

Hoare's Law of Large Programs Inside every large program is a small program struggling to get out.

Horner's Five Thumb Postulate Experience varies directly with equipment ruined.

Howard's First Law of Theater Use it.

Howe's Law Every man has a scheme that will not work.

Hull's Theorem The combined pull of several patrons is the sum of their separate pulls multiplied by the number of patrons.

IBM Pollyanna Principle Machines should work.

People should think.

Imhoff's Law The organization of any bureaucracy is very much like a septic tank -- the REALLY big chunks always rise to the top.

Iron Law of Distribution Them what has - gets.

Italian Proverb She who is silent consents.

Jacquin's Postulate on Democratic Governments No man's life, liberty or property are safe while the legislature is in session.

Jay's Laws of Leadership 1)  Changing things is central to leadership, and changing them before anyone else is creativeness.

2)  To build something that endures, it is of the greatest importance to have a long tenure in office -- to rule for many years.

You can achieve a quick success in a year or two, but nearly all of the great tycoons have continued their building much longer.

Jenkinson's Law It won't work.

John Cameron's Law No matter how many times you've had it, if it's offered, take it, because it'll never be quite the same again.

John's Axiom When your opponent is down, kick him.

John's Collateral Corollary In order to get a loan you must first prove you don't need it.

Johnson's Corollary to Heller's Law Nobody really knows what is going on anywhere within your organization.

Johnson's First Law of Auto Repair Any tool dropped while repairing an automobile will roll under the car to the vehicle's exact geographic center.

Johnson-Laird's Law Toothache tends to start on Saturday night.

Jones' Law The man who can smile when things go wrong has thought of someone he can blame it on.

Jones' Motto Friends may come and go, but enemies accumulate.

Kamin's First Law All currencies will decrease in value and purchasing power over the long term, unless they are freely and fully convertable into gold and that gold is traded freely without restrictions of any kind.

Kamin's Second Law Threat of capital controls accelerates marginal capital outflows.

Kamin's Third Law Combined total taxation from all levels of government will always increase (until the government is replaced by war or revolution).

Kamin's Fourth Law Government inflation is always worse than statistics indicate; central bankers are biased toward inflation when the money unit is non-convertible, and without gold or silver backing.

Kamin's Fifth Law Purchasing power of currency is always lost far more rapidly than ever regained.

(Those who expect even fluctuations in both directions play a losing game.) Kamin's Sixth Law When attempting to predict and forcast macro-economic moves or economic legislation by a politician, never be misled by what he says; instead watch what he does.

Kamin's Seventh Law Politicians will always inflate when given the opportunity.

Katz's Law Men and nations will act rationally when all other possibilities have been exhausted.

Kerr-Martin Law 1)  In dealing with their OWN problems, faculty members are the most extreme conservatives.

2)  In dealing with OTHER people's problems, they are the world's most extreme liberals.

Kirkland's Law The usefulness of any meeting is in inverse proportion to the attendance.

Kitman's Law Pure drivel tends to drive off the TV screen ordinary drivel.

Lani's Principles of Economics 1)  Taxes are not levied for the benefit of the taxed.

2)  $100 placed at 7% interest compounded quarterly for 200 years will increase to more than $100,000,000 by which time it will be worth nothing.

3)  In God we trust, all others pay cash.

La Rochefoucauld's Law It is more shameful to distrust one's friends than to be deceived by them.

Law of Communications The inevitable result of improved and enlarged communications between different levels in a hierarchy is a vastly increased area of misunderstanding.

Law of Computability Applied to Social Science If at first you don't succeed, transform your data set.

Law of Selective Gravity   (The Buttered Side Down Law) An object will fall so as to do the most damage.

Law of the Perversity of Nature   (Mrs.

Murphy's Corollary) You cannot successfully determine beforehand which side of the bread to butter.

Law of Superiority The first example of superior principle is always inferior to the developed example of inferior principle.

Laws of Computerdom According to Golub 1)  Fuzzy project objectives are used to avoid the embarrassment of estimating the corresponding costs.

2)  A carelessly planned project takes three times longer to complete than expected; a carefully planned project will take only twice as long.

3)  The effort required to correct course increases geometrically with time.

4)  Project teams detest weekly progress reporting because it so vividly manifests their lack of progress.

Laws of Computer Programming 1)  Any given program, when running, is obsolete.

2)  Any given program costs more and takes longer.

3)  If a program is useful, it will have to be changed.

4)  If a program is useless, it will have to be documented.

5)  Any given program will expand to fill all available memory.

6)  The value of a program is proportional to the weight of its output.

Laws of Gardening 1)  Other people's tools work only in other people's yards.

2)  Fanzy gizmos don't work.

3)  If nobody uses it, there's a reason.

4)  You get the most of what you need the least.

Le Chatelier's Law If some stress is brought to bear on a system in equilibrium, the equilibrium is displaced in the direction which tends to undo the effect of the stress.

Les Miserables Metalaw All laws, whether good, bad, or indifferent, must be obeyed to the letter.

Long's Notes 1)  Always store beer in a dark place.

Lord Falkland's Rule When it is not necessary to make a decision, it is necessary not to make a decision.

Lowery's Law If it jams -- force it.

If it breaks, it needed replacing anyway.

Malek's Law Any simple idea will be worded in the most complicated way.

Malinowski's Law Looking from far above, from our high places of safety in the developed civilization, it is easy to see all the crudity and irrelevance of magic.

Dean Martin's Definition of Drunkenness You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on.

Martin-Berthelot Principle Of all possible committee reactions to any given agenda item, the reaction that will occur is the one which will liberate the greatest amount of hot air.

Match's Maxim A fool in a high station is like a man on the top of a high mountain: everything appears small to him and he appears small to everybody.

Matsch's Law It is better to have a horrible ending than to have horrors without end.

McClaughry's Codicil on Jone's Motto To make an enemy, do someone a favor.

McClaughry's Law of Zoning Where zoning is not needed, it will work perfectly; where it is desperately needed, it always breaks down.

McGoon's Law The probability of winning is inversely proportional to the amount of the wager.

McNaughton's Rule Any argument worth making within the bureaucracy must be capable of being expressed in a simple declarative sentence that is obviously true once stated.

H.

L.

Mencken's Law Those who can -- do.

Those who cannot -- teach.

Those who cannot teach -- administrate.

(Martin's extension) Merrill's First Corollary There are no winners in life; only survivors.

Merrill's Second Corollary In the highway of life, the average happening is of about as much true significance as a dead skunk in the middle of the road.

Meskimen's Law There's never time to do it right, but always time to do it over.

Michehl's Theorem Less is more.

Pastore's Comment on Michehl's Theorem Nothing is ultimate.

Miller's Law You can't tell how deep a puddle is until you step into it.

Mobil's Maxim Bad regulation begets worse regulation.

Murphy's First Law Nothing is as easy as it looks.

Murphy's Second Law Everything takes longer than you think.

Murphy's Third Law In any field of scientific endeavor, anything that can go wrong will go wrong.

Murphy's Fourth Law If there is a possibility of several things going wrong, the one that will cause the most damage will be the one to go wrong.

Murphy's Fifth Law If anything just cannot go wrong, it will anyway.

Murphy's Sixth Law If you perceive that there are four possible ways in which a procedure can go wrong, and circumvent these, then a fifth way, unprepared for, will promptly develop.

Murphy's Seventh Law Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.

Murphy's Eighth Law If everything seems to be going well, you have obviously overlooked something.

Murphy's Ninth Law Nature always sides with the hidden flaw.

Murphy's Tenth Law Mother nature is a bitch.

Murphy's Eleventh Law It is impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so ingenious.

Murphy's Law of Thermodynamics Things get worse under pressure.

Newton's Little-known Seventh Law A bird in the hand is safer than one overhead.

Nienberg's Law Progress is made on alternate Fridays.

Ninety-ten Rule of Project Schedules The first ninety percent of the task takes ten percent of the time, and the last ten percent takes the other ninety percent.

O'Brien's Principle   (The $357.73 Theory) Auditors always reject any expense account with a bottom line divisible by 5 or 10.

Oeser's Law There is a tendency for the person in the most powerful position in an organization to spend all his time serving on committees and signing letters.

Ordering Principle Those supplies necessary for yesterday's experiment must be ordered no later than tomorrow noon.

Osborn's Law Variables won't, constants aren't.

O'Toole's Commentary on Murphy's Laws Murphy was an optimist.

Pardo's Postulates 1)  Anything good is either illegal, immoral, or fattening.

2)  The three faithful things in life are money, a dog, and an old woman.

3)  Don't care if you're rich or not, as long as you can live comfortably and have everything you want.

Pareto's Law   (The 20/80 Law) 20% of the customers account for 80% of the turnover, 20% of components account for 80% of the cost, and so forth.

Parker's Rule of Parlimentary Procedure A motion to adjourn is always in order.

Parker's Law of Political Statements The truth of a proposition has nothing to do with its credibility and vice versa.

Parkinson's First Law Work expands to fill the time available for its completion; the thing to be done swells in perceived importance and complexity in a direct ratio with the time to be spent in its completion.

Parkinson's Second Law Expenditures rise to meet income.

Parkinson's Third Law If there is a way to delay an important decision the good bureaucracy, public or private, will find it.

Parkinson's Fourth Law The number of people in any working group tends to increase regardless of the amount of work to be done.

Parkinson's Law of Delay Delay is the deadliest form of denial.

Pastore's Truths 1)  Even paranoids have enemies.

2)  This job is marginally better than daytime TV.

3)  On alcohol: four is one more than more than enough.

Peckham's Law Beauty times brains equals a constant.

Peer's Law The solution to a problem changes the problem.

Peter Principle In every hierarchy, whether it be government or business, each employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence; every post tends to be filled by an employee incompetent to execute its duties.

Peter's Corollaries 1)  Incompetence knows no barriers of time or place.

2)  Work is accomplished by those employees who have not yet reached their level of incompetence.

3)  If at first you don't succeed, try something else.

Peter's Inversion Internal consistency is valued more highly than efficiency.

Peter's Paradox Employees in a hierarchy do not really object to incompetence in their colleagues.

Peter's Perfect People Palliative Each of us is a mixture of good qualities and some (perhaps) not-so-good qualities.

In considering our fellow people we should remember their good qualities and realize that their faults only prove that they are, after all, human.

We should refrain from making harsh judgements of people just because they happen to be dirty, rotten, no-good sons-of-bitches.

Peter's Placebo An ounce of image is worth a pound of performance.

Peter's Theorem Incompetence plus incompetence equals incompetence.

Potter's Law The amount of flak received on any subject is inversely proportional to the subject's true value.

Productivity Equation The productivity, P, of a group of people is: P = N x T x (.55 - .00005 x N x (N - 1) ) where N is the number of people in the group and T is the number of hours in a work period.

Professor Gordon's Rule of Evolving Bryographic Systems While bryographic plants are typically encountered in substrata of earthy or mineral matter in concreted state, discrete substrata elements occasionally display a roughly spherical configuration which, in presence of suitable gravitational and other effects, lends itself to combined translatory and rotational motion.

One notices in such cases an absence of the otherwise typical accretion of bryophyta.

We therefore conclude that a rolling stone gathers no moss.

Pudder's Law Anything that begins well ends badly.

Anything that begins badly ends worse.

Puritan's Law Evil is live spelled backwards.

Puritan's Second Law If it feels good, don't do it.

Q's Law No matter what stage of completion one reaches in a North Sea (oil) field, the cost of the remainder of the project remains the same.

Rangnekar's Modified Rules Concerning Decisions 1)  If you must make a decision, delay it.

2)  If you can authorize someone else to avoid a decision, do so.

3)  If you can form a committee, have them avoid the decision.

4)  If you can otherwise avoid a decision, avoid it immediately.

Rayburn's Rule If you want to get along, go along.

Riddle's Constant There are coexisting elements in frustration phenomena which separate expected results from achieved results.

Ross' Law Never characterize the importance of a statement in advance.

Rudin's Law In a crisis that forces a choice to be made among alternative courses of action, most people will choose the worst one possible.

Rule of Accuracy When working toward the solution of a problem it always helps if you know the answer.

Sam's Axiom 1)  Any line, however short, is still too long.

2)  Work is the crabgrass of life, but money is the water that keeps it green.

Sattinger's Law It works better if you plug it in.

Segal's Law A man with one watch knows what time it is; a man with two watches is never sure.

Sevareid's Law The chief cause of problems is solutions.

Shalit's Law The intensity of movie publicity is in inverse ratio to the quality of the movie.

Shanahan's Law The length of a meeting rises with the square of the number of people present.

Shaw's Principle Build a system that even a fool can use, and only a fool will want to use it.

Simmon's Law The desire for racial integration increases with the square of the distance from the actual event.

Simon's Law Everything put together sooner or later falls apart.

Skinner's Constant   (Flannegan's Finagling Factor) That quantity which, when multiplied by, divided by, added to, or subtracted from the answer you get, gives you the answer you should have gotten.

Snafu Equations 1)  Given any problem containing n equations, there will be n + 1 unknowns.

2)  An object or bit of information most needed, will be least available.

3)  Any device requiring service or adjustment will be least accessible.

4)  Interchangable devices won't.

Sociology's Iron Law of Oligarchy In every organized activity, no matter the sphere, a small number will become the oligarchial leaders and the others will follow.

Spare Parts Principle The accessibility, during recovery of small parts which fall from the work bench, varies directly with the size of the part and inversely with its importance to the completion of work underway.

Steele's Plagiarism of Somebody's Philosophy Everyone should believe in something -- I believe I'll have another drink.

Sturgeon's Law 90 per cent of everything is crud.

Swipple Rule of Order He who shouts loudest has the floor.

Terman's Law There is no direct relationship between the quality of an educational program and its cost.

Terman's Law of Innovation If you want a track team to win the high jump you find one person who can jump seven feet, not seven people who can jump one foot.

Theory of the International Society of Philosophic Engineering In any calculation, any error which can creep in will.

Thoreau's Law If you see a man approaching with the obvious intent of doing you good,  run for your life.

Transcription Law The number of errors made is equal to the number of 'squares' employed.

Truman's Law If you cannot convince them, confuse them.

Truths of Management 1)  Think before you act; it's not your money.

2)  All good management is the expression of one great idea.

3)  No executive devotes effort to proving himself wrong.

4)  Cash in must exceed cash out.

5)  Management capability is always less than the organization actually needs.

6)  Either an executive can do his job or he can't.

7)  If sophisticated calculations are needed to justify an action, don't do it.

Truth 5.1 of Management Organizations always have too many managers.

10) The easiest way of making money is to stop losing it.

Tuccille's First Law of Reality Industry always moves in to fill an economic vacuum.

Vail's Axiom In any human enterprise, work seeks the lowest hierarchial level.

Vique's Law A man without religion is like a fish without a bicycle.

Vonnegut's Corollary Beauty may be only skin deep, but ugliness goes right to the core.

Weaver's Law When several reporters share a cab on an assignment, the reporter in the front seat pays for all.

Weaver's Corollary   (Doyle's Corollary) No matter how many reporters share a cab, and no matter who pays, each puts the full fare on his own expense account.

Weber-Fechner Law The least change in stimulus necessary to produce a perceptible change in response is proportional to the stimulus already existing.

Weiler's Law Nothing is impossible for the man who doesn't have to do it himself.

Weinberg's Law If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote programs, then the first woodpecker that came along would destroy civilization.

Weinberg's Corollary An expert is a person who avoids the small errors while sweeping on to the grand fallacy.

Westheimer's Rule To estimate the time it takes to do a task:  estimate the time you think it should take, multiply by 2, and change the unit of measure to the next highest unit.

Thus we allocate 2 days for a one hour task.

White's Chappaquidick Theorem The sooner and in more detail you announce bad news, the better.

White's Observations of Committee Operation 1)  People very rarely think in groups; they talk together, they exchange information, they adjudicate, they make compromises.

But they do not think; they do not create.

2)  A really new idea affronts current agreement.

White's Statement Don't lose heart...

Owen's Comment on White's Statement ...they might want to cut it out...

Byrd's Addition to Owen's Comment on White's Statement ...and they want to avoid a lengthy search.

Wiker's Law Government expands to absorb revenue and then some.

Wolf's Law    (An Optimistic View of a Pessimistic World) It isn't that things will necessarily go wrong (Murphy's Law), but rather that they will take so much more time and effort than you think if they are not to go wrong.

Worker's Dilemma Law   (or Management's Put-Down Law) 1)  No matter how much you do, you'll never do enough.

2)  What you don't do is always more important than what you do do.

Wynne's Law Negative slack tends to increase.

Zymurgy's First Law of Evolving System Dynamics Once you open a can of worms, the only way to recan them is to use a larger can.

(Old worms never die, they just worm their way into larger cans).

Zymurgy's Law on the Availability of Volunteer Labor People are always available for work in the past tense.

Zymurgy's Seventh Exception to Murphy's Laws When it rains, it pours.

Murphy's Laws of Thermodynamics: 1) You can't win 2) You can't break even 3) You can't get out of the game Murphy's Law of Selective Gravitation An object will alway fall where it can do the most damage.

Murphy's Law of Physics A paritcle will always appear where it shouldn't.

Murphy's law of the Lab You will never have the part you need, and will always have 10 of every part you don't need.

Given the need for a resistor of M ohms, and N resistors of values K1 to Kn, there will be no way to combine them to = M Your files will always expand to fill the available tracks.

The system will always crash when you are over your track limit, and have been editing for the last 3 hours.

There comes a time in the affairs of man when he must take the bull by the tail and face the situation -- W.

C.

Fields A man's reach should exceed his grasp.

A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.

Haste makes waste.

He who hesitates is lost.

Above all, to thine own self be true.

When in Rome, do as the Romans do.

It is never too late to learn.

You can't teach an old dog new tricks.

Good things come in small packages.

The bigger, the better.

There is no point in beating a dead horse.

If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.

He who hesitates is lost.

Act in haste, repent at leisure.

(Look before you leap.) Two is company, three is a crowd.

The more, the merrier.

...do it well or not at all.

Half a loaf is better than none.

Nothing ventured, nothing gained.

Better safe than sorry.

Never judge a book by its cover.

Clothes make the man.

Out of sight, out of mind.

Absence makes the heart grow fonder.

Many hands make light work.

Too many cooks spoil the broth.

Never send a boy to do a man's job.

...and a little child shall lead them.

Actions speak louder than words.

The pen is mightier than the sword.

Never change horses in mid-stream.

Variety is the spice of life.

Silence is golden.

The squeaky wheel gets the grease.

Practice makes perfect.

All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.

A penny saved is a penny earned.

The love of money is the root of all evil.

There is no expedient to which a man will not go to avoid the real labor of thinking.

Be kindly affectionated one to another It's much easier to ride a horse the way he is going.

Belladonna: In Italian, a beautiful lady; in English a deadly poison.

A striking example of the essential identity of the two tongues.

Bigot: One who is obstinately and zealously attached to an opinion that you do not entertain.

(A.

Bierce) Bore: A person who talks when you wish him to listen.

(A.

Bierce) Cabbage: A familiar kitchen-garden vegetable about as large and as wise as a man's head.

(A.

Bierce) Clairvoyant: A person, commonly a woman, who has the power of seeing that which is invisible to her patron - namely, that he is a blockhead.

Education: That which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding.

(A.

Bierce) Inventor:  A person who makes an ingenious arrangement of wheels, levers and springs, and believes it civilization.

(A.

Bierce) Logic:  The art of thinking and reasoning in strict accordance with the limitations and incapacities of the human misunderstanding.

(A.

Bierce) Mayonnaise:  One of the sauces which serve the French in place of a state religion.

(A.

Bierce) Optimism:  The doctrine that everything is beautiful, including what is ugly, everything good, especially the bad, and everything right that is wrong.

...

It is hereditary, but fortunately not contagious.

(A.

Bierce) A poet who reads his verse in public may have other bad habits.

Never underestimate the power of human stupidity.

Natural laws have not pity.

Never try to outstubborn a cat The only difference between the fool and the criminal who attacks a system is that the fool attacks unpredictably and on a broader front.

Virtue is its own reward, but then so is sin! We're all bozos on this bus We're dumber than we look.

Everything you know is wrong.

Why does the porridge bird lay her egg in the air? You don't understand how radio works.

All you have to do is fade your voice down and queue the organist.

We have met the enemy and he is us.

- Pogo Please engage brain before setting mouth into motion.

Mumble.

You don't need a weatherman to tell which way the wind blows.

- Bob Dylan Nintey per cent of everything is Garbage.

- P.

Sturgeon There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order to things.

Let's look at the record.

Non illigitum carburundum est.

(Don't let the bastards grind you down) A man without a God is like a fish without a bicycle.

The confidence of ignorance will always overcome indecision of knowledge.

One man's bug is another man's feature He who join nudist club pay no cover charge.

Candy is dandy, but sex won't rot your teeth.

Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker.

Don't vote, it only encourages them.

Abbott's Admonitions: 1)  If you have to ask, you're not entitled to know.

2)  If you don't like the answer, you shouldn't have asked the question.

Abrams's Advice: When eating an elephant, take one bite at a time.

Rule of Accuracy: When working toward the solution of a problem, it always helps if you know the answer.

Corollary: Provided, of course, that you know there is a problem.

Acheson's Rule of the Bureaucracy: A memorandum is written not to inform the reader but to protect the writer.

Acton's Law: Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.

Ade's Law: Anybody can win -- unless there happens to be a second entry.

Airplane Law: When the plane you are on is late, the plane you want to transfer to is on time.

Albrecht's Law: Social innovations tend to the level of minimum tolerable well being.

Algren's Precepts: Never eat at a place called Mom's.

Never play cards with a man named Doc.

And never lie down with a woman who's got more troubles than you.

Allen's Law of Civilization: It is better for civilization to be going down the drain than to be coming up it.

Bradley's Bromide: If computers get too powerful, we can organize them into a committee - that will do them in.

Civilization: Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can do without thinking of them.

Agnes Allen's Law: Almost anything is easier to get into than out of.

Fred Allen's Law: I'd rather have a free bottle in front of me than a prefrontal lobotomy.

Alley's Axiom: Justice always prevails ...

three times out of seven.

Allison's Precept: The best simple-minded test of experience in a particular area is the ability to win money in a series of bets on future occurrences in that area.

Anderson's Law: I have yet to see any problem, however complicated, which, when you looked at it in the right way, did not become still more complicated.

Andrew's Canoeing Postulate: No matter which direction you start, it's always against the wind coming back.

Andrew's Deduction: Attila the Hun came from a broken home.

Law of Annoyance: When working on a project, if you put away a tool that you're certain you're finished with, you will need it instantly.

Anthony's Law of Force: Don't force it, get a larger hammer.

Anthony's Law of the Workshop: Any tool, when dropped, will roll into the least accessible corner of the workshop.

Corollary:    On the way to the corner, any dropped tool will first strike your toes.

Approval Seeker's Law: Those whose approval you seek the most give you the least.

The Aquinas Axiom: What the gods get away with, the cows don't.

Army Axiom: Any order that can be misunderstood has been misunderstood.

Army Law: If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; if you can't pick it up, paint it.

Astrology Law: It's always the wrong time of the month.

Fourteenth Corollary of Atwood's General Law of Dynamic Negatives: No books are lost by loaning except those you particularly wanted to keep.

Avery's Rule of Three: Trouble strikes in series of threes, but when working around the house the next job after a series of three is not the fourth job -- it is the start of a brand new series of three.

Babcock's Law: If it can be borrowed and it can be broken, you will borrow it and you will break it.

Baer's Quartet: What's good politics is bad economics; what's bad politics is good economics; what's good economics is bad politics; what's bad economics is good politics.

Baker's Byroad: When you are over the hill, you pick up speed.

Baker's Law: Misery no longer loves company.

Nowadays it insists on it.

Baldy's Law: Some of it plus the rest of it is all of it.

Barr's Comment on Domestic Tranquility: On a beautiful day like this it's hard to believe anyone can be unhappy -- but we'll work on it.

Barth's Distinction: There are two classes of people: those who divide people into two classes, and those who don't.

Bartz's Law of Hokey Horsepuckery: The more ridiculous a belief system, the higher the probability of its success.

Baruch's Rule for Determining Old Age: Old age is always fifteen years older than I am.

Forthoffer's Cynical Summary of Barzun's Laws: 1)  That which has not yet been taught directly can never be taught directly.

2)  If at first you don't succeed, you will never succeed.

Baxter's First Law: Government intervention in the free market always leads to a lower national standard of living.

Beardsley's Warning to Lawyers: Beware of and eschew pompous prolixity.

Beauregard's First Law: When you're up to your nose, keep your mouth shut.

Beauregard's Second Law: All people are cremated equal.

Thoughts on reality : The trouble with having both feet on the ground is that it brings one into unbearably close contact with the world.

 Thomas Szasz    -"Heresies"  Definition: Lawyers : Litigants are amateur self-justifiers; Lawyers are the professional justifiers of others.

 Thomas Szasz    -"Heresies"  Axiom on thinking : There is no good digestion without hydrochloric acid; and there is no good thinking without adrenaline.

 Thomas Szasz    -"Heresies" Beware of people who tell you that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing - unless they quickly add that no knowledge is a fatal thing.

They are trying to make you more vulnerable, not more wise.

 Thomas Szasz    -"Heresies"  Thoughts on management : If everyone dislikes it, it must be looked into.

If everyone likes it, it must be looked into.

e.e.

cummings' theory of knowledge: all ignorance toboggans into know  Becker's Law: It is much harder to find a job than to keep one.

Belle's Constant: The ratio of time involved in work to time available for work is usually about 0.6.

Benchley's Distinction: There are two types of people:  those who divide people into two types, and those who don't.

Benchley's Law: Anyone can do any amount of work, provided it isn't the work he is supposed to be doing at that moment.

First Law of Bicycling: No matter which way you ride, it's uphill and against the wind.

The Billings Phenomenon: The conclusions of most good operations research studies are obvious.

Billing's Law: Live within your income, even if you have to borrow to do so.

Blaauw's Law: Established technology tends to persist in spite of new technology.

Blanchard's Newspaper Obituary Law: If you want your name spelled wrong, die.

Bok's Law: If you think education is expensive -- try ignorance.

Boling's Postulate: If you're feeling good, don't worry.

You'll get over it.

Bolton's Law of Ascending Budgets: Under current practices, both expenditures and revenues rise to meet each other, no matter which one may be in excess.

Bombeck's Rule of Medicine: Never go to a doctor whose office plants have died.

Boyle's Observation: A welfare state is one that assumes responsibility for the health, happiness, and general well-being of all its citizens except the taxpayers.

Boston's Irreversible Law of Clutter: In any household, junk accumulates to fill the space available for its storage.

Booker's Law: An ounce of application is worth a ton of abstraction.

Bonafede's Revelation: The conventional wisdom is that power is an aphrodisiac.

In truth, it's exhausting.

Boob's Law: You always find something the last place you look.

Boozer's Revision: A bird in the hand is dead.

Boren's Laws of the Bureaucracy: 1)  When in doubt, mumble.

2)  When in trouble, delegate.

3)  When in charge, ponder.

Borstelmann's Rule: If everything seems to be coming your way, you're probably in the wrong lane.

Boultbee's Criterion: If the converse of a statement is absurd, the original statement is an insult to the intelligence and should never have been said.

Branch's First Law of Crisis: The spirit of public service will rise, and the bureaucracy will multiply itself much faster, in time of grave national concern.

First Law of Bridge: It's always the partner's fault.

Brien's First Law: At some time in the life cycle of virtually every organization, its ability to succeed in spite of itself runs out.

Broder's Law: Anybody that wants the presidency so much that he'll spend two years organizing and campaigning for it is not to be trusted with the office.

Brontosaurus Principle: Organizations can grow faster than their brains can manage them in relation to their environment and to their own physiology; when this occurs, they are an endangered species.

Brooks's Law: Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.

Brooke's Law: Whenever a system becomes completely defined, some damn fool discovers something which either abolishes the system or expands it beyond recognition.

(Sam) Brown's Law: Never offend people with style when you can offend them with substance.

(Tony) Brown's Law of Business Success: Our customer's paperwork is profit.

Our own paperwork is loss.

Bruce-Brigg's Law of Traffic: At any level of traffic, any delay is intolerable.

Buchwald's Law: As the economy gets better, everything else gets worse.

Bucy's Law: Nothing is ever accomplished by a reasonable man.

Bumper Sticker Axiom: VM systems programmers do it virtually all the time.

Bunuel's Law: Overdoing things is harmful in all cases, even when it comes to efficiency.

Burns's Balance: If the assumptions are wrong, the conclusions aren't likely to be very good.

Butler's Law of Progress: All progress is based on a universal innate desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its income.

Bye's First Law of Model Railroading: Anytime you wish to demonstrate something, the number of faults is proportional to the number of viewers.

Bye's Second Law of Model Railroading: The desire for modeling a prototype is inversely proportional to the decline of the prototype.

Cahn's Axiom (Allen's Axiom): When all else fails, read the instructions.

Calkin's Law of Menu Language: The number of adjectives and verbs that are added to the description of a menu item is in inverse proportion to the quality of the resulting dish.

John Cameron's Law: No matter how many times you've had it, if it's offered, take it, because it'll never be quite the same again.

Camp's Law: A coup that is known in advance is a coup that does not take place.

Campbell's Law: Nature abhors a vacuous experimenter.

Canada Bill Jones's Motto: It's morally wrong to allow suckers to keep their money.

Canada Bill Jones's Supplement: A Smith and Wesson beats four aces.

Cannon's Cogent Comment: The leak in the roof is never in the same location as the drip.

Captain Risser's Law: If it's in stock, we have it!  Cavanaugh's Postulate: All kookies are not in a jar.

Law of Character and Appearance: People don't change; they only become more so.

Checkbook Balancer's Law: In matters of dispute, the bank's balance is always smaller than yours.

Cheop's Law: Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.

Chesterton's Observation: I have seen the truth and it makes no sense.

Chili Cook's Secret: If your next pot of chili tastes better, it probably is because of something left out, rather than added.

Chisholm's Second Law: When things are going well, something will go wrong.

Corollaries: 1)  When things just can't get any worse, they will.

2)  Anytime things appear to be going better, you have overlooked something.

The First Discovery of Christmas Morning: Batteries not included.

The First Discovery of Christmas Afternoon: Give a kid a new toy - Dad will play with the toy, the kid will play with the box it came in.

Etorre's Observation: The other line moves faster.

Faber's Fourth Law: Necessity is the mother of strange bedfellows.

Feldstein's Law: Never, ever, play leapfrog with a unicorn.

The Golden Rule: Whoever has the gold makes the rules.

Rev.

Mahaffey's Observation: There's no such thing as a small whiskey.

The Law of Probable Dispersal: Whatever hits the fan will not be evenly distributed (also known as: The How Come It All Landed On Me Law).

Martha's Maxim: If God had meant for us to travel tourist class, He would have made us narrower.

Russell's Observation: Due to a lack of trained trumpeters, the end of the world has been postponed indefinitely.

Ellenberg's Theory: One good turn gets most of the blanket.

The Point of No Return Law: The light at the end of the tunnel could turn out to be the headlight of an oncoming train.

Moer's Truism: The trouble with most jobs is the resemblance to being in a sled dog team: No one gets a change of scenery, except the lead dog.

Firestone's Law of Forecasting: Chicken Little only has to be right once.

Gordon's First Law: If a project is not worth doing at all, it is not worth doing well.

Grierson's Law of Minimal Self-Delusion: Every man nourishes within himself a secret plan for getting rich that will not work.

Gumperson's Law: The probability of anything happening is inversely proportional to its desirability.

Hoare's Law of Large Problems: Inside every large problem there is a small problem struggling to get out.

Horowitz's First Law of the Admirality: A collision at sea can ruin your entire day.

How's Law: Every man has a scheme that will not work.

Jiminez's Maxim: If they give you ruled paper, write the other way.

Jones' Motto: Friends may come and go, but enemies accumulate.

Mahr's Law of Restrained Involvement: Don't get any on you.

Maier's Law: If the facts do not conform to the theory, they must be discarded.

The First Law of Management: Kickbacks must always exceed bribes.

Munroes Observation: Common sense is not that common.

Murphy's Law: If anything can go wrong, it will.

The New Math Version of Murphy's Law: If there is a 50/50 chance of something going wrong, nine times out of ten it will.

O'Toole's Commentary on Murphy's Law: Murphy was an optimist.

The First Corollary to Murphy's Law: Nothing is as easy as it looks.

The Second Corollary to Murphy's Law: Everything takes longer than you think.

The Third Corollary to Murphy's Law: If there is a possibility of several things going wrong, the one that will cause the most damage will be the one to go wrong.

The Fourth Corollary to Murphy's Law: If you perceive that there are four possible ways in which a procedure can go wrong, and circumvent these, then a fifth way will promptly develop.

The Fifth Corollary to Murphy's Law: Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.

The Sixth Corollary to Murphy's Law: Whenever you start out to do something, something else must be done first.

The Seventh Corollary to Murphy's Law: Every solution breeds new problems.

The Eighth Corollary to Murphy's Law: It is impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so ingenious.

The Ninth Corollary to Murphy's Law: Nature always sides with the hidden flaw.

The Tenth Corollary to Murphy's Law: Mother nature is a bitch.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

11: If you fool around with a thing for very long, you will screw it up.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

12: Fixing a thing takes longer and costs more than you thought.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

13: No amount of genius can overcome a preoccupation for detail.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

14: Complex problems have simple, easy-to-understand wrong answers.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

15: In order for something to become clean, something else must become dirty.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

16: An easily understood, workable falsehood is more useful than a complex, incomprehensible truth.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

17: Anything based on greed and avarice is on a firm footing and will prevail.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

18: We have more to fear from the bumbling of the incompetent than from the machinations of the wicked.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

19: As the economy gets better, everything else gets worse.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

20: If several things that could have gone wrong have not gone wrong, it would have been ultimately beneficial for them to have gone wrong.

Murphy's Law, Version No.

21: The secret of success is sincerity.

Once you can fake that, you  have it made.

Ninety-ninety Rule of Project Schedules: The first 90% of the task takes 90% of the time.

The last 10% of the task takes the other 90%.

Nonreciprocal Laws of Expectations: Negative expectations yield negative results.

Positive expectations yield negative results.

Nowlan's Truism: An "acceptable level of unemployment" means that the government economist to whom it is acceptable still has a job.

Pastore's Truth: Most jobs are marginally better than daytime TV.

Turnaucka's Law: The attention span of a computer is only as long as it's electrical cord.

Laws of Programming: Definition:  A working  program is  one  that has  only unobserved bugs  Laws of Programming: #1  - Every non-trivial program has at least one bug Corollary 1:  A sufficient  condition for program      triviality is that it have no bugs.

Corollary 2:  At least one bug will be observed      after the author leaves the      organization  Laws of Programming: #2  - Bugs will appear in  one part of a working program when another "unrelated" part is modified  Laws of Programming: #3   - The subtlest bugs cause the greatest damage and problems.

Corollary  1: A subtle bug will modify storage thereby masquerading as some other problem  Laws of Programming: #4  - ("Lulled into  security Law") A "debugged" program that crashes will wipe out source files on storage devices when there is the least available backup  Laws of Programming: #5  - A hardware failure will cause system software to crash, and the customer engineer will blame the programmer  Laws of Programming: #6  - A system software crash will cause hardware to act strangely  and  the  programmers   will  blame  the customer engineer  Laws of Programming: #7  - The documented interfaces between standard software modules will have undocumented quirks  Laws of Programming: #8  - The probability of a hardware failure disappearing is inversely proportional to the distance between the computer and the customer engineer  Laws of Programming: #9  - Murphy designed all system software Note: For those  who may be in doubt,  Murphy's Law states that if anything can go  wrong, it will, and always at the most inconvenient time.

Laws of Programming: #10  - (Galvin's Law): Murphy was an optimist  Laws of Programming: #11  - Any given program, when running, is obsolete  Laws of Programming: #12  - If a program is useless, it will have to be documented If a program is useful it will have to be changed  Laws of Programming: #13  - Any program will expand to fill all available memory  Laws of Programming: #14  - The value of a program is proportional to the weight of its output  Laws of Programming: #15  - Program complexity grows until it exceeds the capability of the programmer to maintain it  Laws of Programming: #16  - Make it possible for programmers to write in English and you will find out that programmers cannot write in English  Thoughts on Programming, Number 1: If a programmer is found to be indispensable, the best thing to do is to get rid of him as quickly as possible.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 2: Some years ago, when COBOL was the great white programming hope, one heard much talk of the possibility of executives being able to read programs ...

nobody can seriously have this! ...

even programmers do not read programs.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 3: There are ...

programs that should be thrown away before ever being used.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 4: Asking for efficiency and adaptability in the same program is like asking for a beautiful and modest wife ...

we'll probably have to settle for one or the other.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 5: If the programmer is working in a language that allows only three dimensions, we are not likely to observe more than three.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 6: Putting a bunch of people to work on the same problem doesn't make them a team.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 7: Each program has an appropriate level of care and sophistication dependent on the uses to which it will be put.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 8: To detect errors, the programmer must have a conniving mind, one that delights in uncovering flaws where beauty  and perfection were once thought to lie.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 9: For locating errors, however, we want a person who has the persistence of a mother-in-law and the collecting instincts of a pack rat.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 10: If the poor workman hates his tools, the good workman hates poor tools.

The work of the workingman is, in a sense, defined by his tools.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 11: 'Programming' - like 'loving' - is a single word that encompasses an infinitude of activities.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Einstein's View of Questions The important thing is not to stop questioning.

Curiosity has its own reason for existing.

-Albert Einstein  Thoughts on Programming, Number 12: Programming shares with prayer the feature of directional transmission and broadcast reception.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 13: In some terminal systems ...

the user can keep his program from being pushed down in the priority stack by fiddling with the shift key while he is thinking.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 14: The expert is a person who avoids the small errors as he sweeps on to the grand fallacy.

-Anonymous  Thoughts on Programming, Number 15: The nature of programming being what it is, there is no relationship between the 'size' of the error and the problems it causes.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 16: When a programmer has a difficult time finding a bug, it is because he is looking in the wrong place.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 17: Documentation is the castor oil of programming ...

the managers know it must be good because programmers hate it so much.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 18: The human mind ordinarily operates at only ten per cent of its capacity - the rest is overhead for the operating system.

-Anonymous  Thoughts on Programming, Number 19: We stand at the brink of a new age, an age made possible by the revolution that is embodied in the computer.

Standing on the brink, we could totter either way - to a golden age of liberty or a dark age of tyranny, either of which would surpass anything the world has ever known.

Perhaps no individual's efforts will make any difference in the result, but we must never cease trying, for then the result is sure to be tyranny.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 20: A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea.

-Dutch proverb  Thoughts on Programming, Number 21: The programmed computer has all the fascination of the pinball machine or the jukebox mechanism, carried to the ultimate.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 22: The programmer, like the poet, works only slightly removed from pure thought-stuff.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 23: Designing grand concepts is fun; finding nitty little bugs is just work.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 24: As soon as one freezes a design, it becomes obsolete in terms of its concepts.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 25: Good cooking takes time.

If you are made to wait, it is to serve you better, and to please you.

-Menu of Restaurant Antoine, New Orleans  Thoughts on Programming, Number 26: All programmers are optimists.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 27: This time it will surely run.

-Anonymous I just found the last bug.

-Unanimous  Thoughts on Programming, Number 28: A large programming effort ...

consists of many tasks, some chained end-to-end.

The probability that each will go well becomes vanishingly small.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 29: Cost does indeed vary as the product of the number of men and the number of months.

Progress does not.

Hence the man-month as a unit for measuring the size of a job is a dangerous and deceptive myth.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 30: The bearing of a child takes nine months, no matter how many women are assigned.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 31: When everything has been seen to work, all integrated, you have four more months work to do.

-Charles Portman  International Computers Limited  Thoughts on Programming, Number 32: Observe that for the programmer, as for the chef, the urgency of the patron may govern the scheduled completion of the task, but it cannot govern the actual completion.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 33: Brooks Law: Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 34: The sheer number of minds to be coordinated affects the cost of the effort.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 35: Conceptual integrity is the most important consideration in system design.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 36: The purpose of a programming system is to make a computer easy to use.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 37: Neither function alone nor simplicity alone defines a good design.

-The Mythical Man-Month   Frederick P.

Brooks, Jr.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 38: Add little to little and there will be a big pile.

-Ovid  Thoughts on Programming, Number 39: He'll sit here and he'll say, 'Do this! Do that!' And nothing will happen.

- Harry S  Truman  Thoughts on Programming, Number 40: Never go to sea with two chronometers; take one or three.

-Anonymous  Thoughts on Programming, Number 41: I know it.

I know what needs to be done - but every time I try to tackle a technical problem some bloody fool wants me to make a decision about trucks - or telephones - or some damn thing.

-Robert Heinlein  The Man Who Sold the Moon  Thoughts on Programming, Number 42: The problem was that everybody who was working there, including myself, wanted to do really neat stuff but THEY didn't want neat stuff, they just wanted a lot of stuff fast.

-Rick Baker, make-up artist for King  Kong, Star Wars, et.

al.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 43: The generation of random numbers is too important to be left to chance.

-Robert R.

Coveyou  Oak Ridge National Laboratory  Thoughts on Programming, Number 44: It's redundant!  It's redundant!  -R.

E.

Dundant  Thoughts on Programming, Number 45: I don't know any reason why we couldn't do it, but maybe we can think of one.

-Mark C.

Davison  Thoughts on Programming, Number 46: Bug?  That's not a bug, that's a feature.

-T.

John Wendel  Thoughts on Programming, Number 47: The computer 'Doth make fools of us all'.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 48: Any fool without the ability to share a laugh on himself will be unable to tolerate programming for long.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 49: The programmer's national anthem is 'AAAAAAAAGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHH'.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 50: When we finally see the light, we see how once again we have fallen into some foolish assumption, some oafish practice, or some witless blunder.

-The Psychology of Computer Programming,   Gerald M.

Weinberg  Thoughts on Programming, Number 51: The computer always has an excuse: the programmer never does.

-Mark C.

Davison  Thoughts on Programming, Number 52: The user does not know what he wants until he sees what he gets.

-Ed Yourdon  Thoughts on Programming, Number 53: Completely compatible - things that work together with less than $1000 of interfaces and less than 100 man-hours of software patches.

-Datamazing, 4/1/78  Thoughts on Programming, Number 54: Stack manipulation - the use of inflatable falsies.

-Datamazing, 4/1/78  Thoughts on Programming, Number 55: Design of both hardware and software must be considered when doing the system design.

-Proceedings of the IEEE, 2/78, p.167  Thoughts on Programming, Number 56: The job cannot be done right unless the necessary tools are available.

-Proceedings of the IEEE, 2/78, p.174  Thoughts on Programming, Number 57: I hear and I forget.

I see and I remember.

I do and I understand.

-Confucius  Thoughts on Programming, Number 58: On a clear disk you can seek forever.

-Computerworld button  Thoughts on Programming, Number 59: I write all my critical routines in assembler, and my comedy routines in FORTRAN.

-Anonymous  Thoughts on Programming, Number 60: It is impossible to make anything foolproof because  fools  are so ingenious.

-Edsel Murphy, dec.

Thoughts on Programming, Number 61: It seems intuitively clear that the existence of an error in a program will not be reflected in the  test  result  unless  the program component in error is executed during the test.

-J.C.

Huang, Program Instrumentation  Q's Law: No matter what stage of completion one reaches in a North Sea oil project, the cost of the remainder of the project remains the same.

Radar's Fundamental Truth: The grass is brown on both sides of the fence.

Sander's Rumination: Life is a game, the object of which is to discover the object of the game.

Segal's Law: A man with one watch knows what time it is.

A man with two watches is never sure.

The Law of Selective Gravity: An object will fall so as to do the most damage.

Jenning's Corollary: The chance of the bread falling with the buttered side down is directly proportional to the cost of the carpet.

Skinner's Constant (Flanagan's Finagling Factor): That quantity which, when multiplied by, divided by, added to, or subtracted from the answer you get, gives the answer you should have gotten.

Snafu Equation No.

6: Badness comes in waves.

The Unspeakable Law: As soon as you mention something ...

- if it's good, it goes away.

- if it's bad, it happens.

Watson's Injunction: THINK!  Wohl's Riddle: Q.

  What is so rare as a day in June? A.

  A day in February, which is 6.7% more rare; except in leap year when it is still 3.3% more rare.

                        -- R.

Wohl  The Law of Xerox: Anything important loses its value soon after being Xeroxed.

Zymurgy's First Law of Evolving Systems Dynamics: Once you open a can of worms, the only way to recan them is to use a larger can.

Cole's law: Thinly sliced cabbage.

Schwartz Says: Playing games leads to Mastery!  Rob's Retort The insult of an enemy is better then the flattery of a friend.

Jones' Law: The man who can smile when things go wrong...

has thought of someone he can blame it on.

Weinberg's Law: If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote programs, then the first woodpecker that came along would destroy civilization.

RB's Five-thumb Postulate: Experience varies directly with the equipment ruined.

The James-Watt-oriented Observation: Beauty is only skin-deep, but ugly goes clean to the bone.

The Illiterati Programus Canto 1: A program is a lot like a nose - Sometimes it runs and sometimes it blows.

Lafayette's Reprisal: The squeaky wheel gets replaced.

The Illiterati Programus Introduction: To get the job you really want, you must: 1.

Make a business case against it.

2.

Use irrefutable arguments against it.

You will then be put in charge of it.

The Turing Test: A sort of LOVE BOAT for machines.

If you survive a week of it, you pass.

Advanced Systems News Letter The nail that sticks up gets hammered down.

   --Anonymous  Fallibility: Fallible men design fallible computers.

A computer program does what you tell it to do, not what you want it to do.

Rules of Pratt: #1  If a severe problem manifests itself, no solution is acceptable unless it is involved, expensive, and time consuming  Rules of Pratt: #2  Sufficient monies to do the job correctly the first time are not available, however, ample funds are much easier obtained for repeated revisions.

Grosch's Law: #1  Computing power increases as the square of the cost increases, if you want to do it twice as cheap you have to do it four times as fast.

Grosch's Law: #2  Twenty percent of the components account for eighty percent of the cost, and so forth.

Troutman's Programming Law: #1  If a test installation function's perfectly, all subsequent systems will malfunction.

Troutman's Programming Law: #2  Not until a program has been in production for at least six months will the most harmful error then be discovered.

Troutman's Programming Law: #3  Job control cards that cannot be arranged in improper order will be  Troutman's Programming Law: #4  Interchangeable tapes won't  Troutman's Programming Law: #5  If the input editor has been  designed to reject all bad input, an ingenious idiot will discover a method to get bad data past it.

Troutman's Programming Law: #6  Machines work, people should think.

Golub's Laws of computerdom: #1  A carelessly planned project takes three times longer to complete than expected; a carefully planned project will take only twice as long.

Golub's Laws of computerdom: #2  The effort required to correct the error increases geometrically with time.

Golub's Laws of computerdom: #3  Project teams detest weekly progress reporting because it so vividly manifests their lack of progress.

Hunts Law of Suspense: If any work has a suspense date on it, that work will be completed as close to the suspense date as possible regardless of how far in advance it was programmed.

Grace's Words: What ever happened to "manage machine, lead people"  Computers vs People: One good reason why computers can do more work than people is that they never have to stop and answer the phone.

The Programmer's Nemesis: Experts theorize that through evolution and inbreeding, programmers may become a distinct subspecies of the human race.

A Law for the Future: If it's not in a computer, it doesn't exist.

Hogan's Homily: We won't have personal computing until we can get them little and talking.

Wain's Conclusion: The only people making money these days are the ones who sell computer paper.

Computer Axiom: #1  When putting it into memory, remember where you put it.

Law of Cybernetic Entomology: There's always one more bug.

Landau's Programming Paradox: #1  The best programmer has to be someone  Landau's Programming Paradox: #2  The more humanlike a computer becomes the less time it spends computing and the more time it spends doing more humanlike work.

Landau's Programming Paradox: #3  A software committee of one is limited by its own horizon and will only specify that far.

Got an invitation you'd rather decline?  No problem.

Just pick a number:  I'd love to, but...

I have to floss my cat.

I've dedicated my life to linguine.

I want to spend more time with my blender.

The President said he might drop in.

The man on television told me to say tuned.

I've been scheduled for a karma transplant.

I'm staying home to work on my cottage cheese sculpture.

It's my parakeet's bowling night.

It wouldn't be fair to the other Beautiful People.

I'm building a pig from a kit.

I did my own thing and now I've got to undo it.

I'm enrolled in aerobic scream therapy.

There's a disturbance in the Force.

I'm doing door-to-door collecting for static cling.

I have to go to the post office to see if I'm still wanted.

I'm teaching my ferret to yodel.

I have to check the freshness dates on my dairy products.

I'm going through cherry cheesecake withdrawal.

I'm planning to go downtown to try on gloves.

My crayons all melted together.

I'm trying to see how long I can go without saying yes.

I'm in training to be a household pest.

I'm getting my overalls overhauled.

My patent is pending.

I'm attending the opening of my garage door.

I'm sandblasting my oven.

I'm worried about my vertical hold.

I'm going down to the bakery to watch the buns rise.

I'm being deported.

The grunion are running.

I'll be looking for a parking space.

My Millard Fillmore Fan Club meets then.

The monsters haven't turned blue yet, and I have to eat more dots.

I'm taking punk totem pole carving.

I have to fluff my shower cap.

I'm converting my calendar watch from Julian to Gregorian.

I've come down with a really horrible case of something or other.

I made an appointment with a cuticle specialist.

My plot to take over the world is thickening.

I have to fulfill my potential.

I don't want to leave my comfort zone.

It's too close to the turn of the century.

I have some real hard words to look up in the dictionary.

My subconscious says no.

I'm giving nuisance lessons at a convenience store.

I left my body in my other clothes.

The last time I went, I never came back.

I've got a Friends of Rutabaga meeting.

I have to answer all of my "occupant" letters.

None of my socks match.

I have to be on the next train to Bermuda.

I'm having all my plants neutered.

People are blaming me for the Spanish-American War.

I changed the lock on my door and now I can't get out.

I'm making a home movie called "The Thing That Grew in My Refrigerator." I'm attending a perfume convention as guest sniffer.

My yucca plant is feeling yucky.

I'm touring China with a wok band.

My chocolate-appreciation class meets that night.

I never go out on days that end in "Y." My mother would never let me hear the end of it.

I'm running off to Yugoslavia with a foreign-exchange student named Basil Metabolism.

I just picked up a book called "Glue in Many Lands" and I can't put it down.

I'm too old/young for that stuff.

I have to wash/condition/perm/curl/tease/torment my hair.

I have too much guilt.

There are important world issues that need worrying about.

I have to draw "Cubby" for an art scholarship.

I'm uncomfortable when I'm alone or with others.

I promised to help a friend fold road maps.

I feel a song coming on.

I'm trying to be less popular.

My bathroom tiles need grouting.

I have to bleach my hare.

I'm waiting to see if I'm already a winner.

I'm writing a love letter to Richard Simmons.

You know how we psychos are.

My favorite commercial is on TV.

I have to study for a blood test.

I'm going to be old someday.

I've been traded to Cincinnati.

I'm observing National Apathy Week.

I have to rotate my crops.

My uncle escaped again.

I'm up to my elbows in waxy buildup.

I have to knit some dust bunnies for a charity bazaar.

I'm having my baby shoes bronzed.

I have to go to court for kitty littering.

I'm going to count the bristles in my toothbrush.

I have to thaw some karate chops for dinner.

Having fun gives me prickly heat.

I'm going to the Missing Persons Bureau to see if anyone is looking for me.

I have to jog my memory.

My palm reader advised against it.

My Dress For Obscurity class meets then.

I have to stay home and see if I snore.

I prefer to remain an enigma.

I think you want the OTHER  [your name].

I have to sit up with a sick ant.

I'm trying to cut down.

Since  the  first  cave  dweller ventured out to gaze up at the night sky, people have sought to know more about the mysterious images  and lights  seen  there.

Being  limited  by  what could be seen with the unaided eye, that early stargazer relied on intellect and imagination to depict the universe, etching images in stone  by  hand,  measuring and  charting  the  paths  of the wanderers, and becoming as familiar with the sky as the limited technology would allow.

Although stargazers frequently took the wrong paths in attempting  to explain  what  they saw, many of them developed new tools to overcome their limitations.

Galileo crafted a fine telescope for observing the heavens.

His hand-drawn pictures of the satellites  of  Jupiter,  the "cup  handles" of Saturn, and the phases of Venus, when combined with the possible reasons for those facts, shook the very  foundations  of the  European  society  in  the Middle Ages.

Bigger and more powerful telescopes, combined with even newer tools, such as spectroscopes and cameras, have answered most of the the  questions  of  those  ancient stargazers.

But in doing so, they have unfolded even newer mysteries.

Beginning  in  the  1960s, our view of the heavens reached beyond the obscuring atmosphere of Earth as unmanned spacecraft carried  cameras and  other  data  sensors  to probe the satellites and planets of the Solar System.

Images those spacecraft sent back to the Earth provided startling clarity to details that are  only  fuzzy  markings  on  the planets'  surfaces when seen from Earth-based telescopes.

Only two of the presently known planets, Neptune and Pluto, remain unexplored  by our  cameras.

In  August  1989, Voyager 2 will snap several thousand closeup frames of the  planet  Neptune  and  its  largest  satellite, Triton.

By the end of the 20th century, only Pluto will not have been visited by one of our spacecraft.

The knowledge humans have today of outer space would astound Galileo.

Spacecraft  have  sent  back  pictures  of  a  cratered and moon-like surface of the planet Mercury and revealed  circulation  patterns  in the  atmosphere  of  Venus.

From Mars, they have sent back images of craters, giant  canyons,  and  volcanoes  on  the  planet's  surface.

Jupiter's   atmospheric   circulation   has   been  revealed,  active volcanoes on the  Jovian  moon  Io  have  been  shown  erupting,  and previously  unknown  moons and a ring circling the planet discovered.

New moons were found orbiting Saturn and  the  Saturnian  rings  were resolved  in  such  detail  that  over 1,000 concentric ring features became apparent.

At Uranus, Voyager sent back  details  of  a  planet that  is  covered  by  a featureless, bluish-green fog.

The planet is encircled by rings darker than charcoal  and  shaped  by  shepherding satellites,  accompanied  by five large satellites, and immersed in a magnetic field.

Those discoveries, and thousands  of  others  like  them,  were  made possible  through  the  technology  of  telemetry,  the  technique of transmitting data by means of radio  signals  to  distant  locations.

Thus,  the  spacecraft  not  only  carries data sensors but must also carry a telemetry system to convert the data from the various sensors into radio pulses.

These pulses are received by a huge  dish  antenna here  on  Earth.

The  signals  are  relayed  to  data  centers where scientists and engineers can convert the radio pulses back  into  the data the sensors originally measured.

A camera system on board the spacecraft measures reflected light from a planet or satellite as it enters the spacecraft's optical system.

A computer  converts  the  measurements  into numerical data, which are transmitted to  a  receiver  on  Earth  by  radio  waves.

On  Earth, computers reassemble the numbers into a picture.

Because  the  measurements  are taken point by point, the images from space are not considered "true" photographs,  or  what  photographers call  a "continuous tone," but rather a facsimile image composed of a pattern of dots assigned various shades  from  white  to  black.

The facsimile image is much like the halftones newspapers use to recreate photographs.

If you examine a newspaper photograph with a magnifying glass,  you  will  see  that  is is composed of many small, variously shaded dots.  Even more closely related to the way images are received  from  space is  the  way  a  television  set  works.

For a picture to appear on a television set, a modulated beam of light  rapidly  illuminates  long rows  of tiny dots.

filling in one line then the next until a picture forms.

These dots are called picture elements, or pixels  for  short, and  the  screen  surface  where they are located is called a raster.

Raster scanning refers  to  the  way  the  beam  of  light  hits  the individual  pixels  at  various  intensities to recreate the original picture.

Of course, scanning happens very  fast,  so  it  is  hardly perceptible to the human eye.

Images from space are drawn in much the same manner on a television-like screen (a cathode-ray tube).

Although  cameras  on a spacecraft probing the Solar System have much in common with those in television  studios,  they  also  have  their share  of  differences.

For  one,  the space-bound cameras take much longer to form and transmit an image.

While  this  may  seem  like  a disadvantage,  it  is  not.

The images produced by the slow-scanning cameras are of a much higher quality and contain more than twice  the amount of information present in a television picture.

The  most  enduring  image  gatherer  in space has been the Voyager 2 spacecraft.

Voyager carries a dual television  camera  system,  which can  be  commanded  to  view  an  object  with either a wide-angle or telephoto lens.

The system is mounted on a science platform that  can be  tilted  in any direction for precise aiming.

Reflected light from the  object  enters  the  lenses  and  falls  on  the  surface  of  a selenium-sulfur  vidicon  television  tube,  11 millimeters square.

A shutter in the camera controls the amount of light reaching the  tube and can vary exposure times from 0.005 second for very bright objects to  15  seconds  or  longer  when searching for faint objects such as unknown moons.

The vidicon tube temporarily holds the image on its surface until  it can  be  scanned  for  brightness  levels.

The surface of the tube is divided into 800 parallel lines, each containing 800 pixels, giving a total of 640,000.

As each pixel is  scanned  for  brightness,  it  is assigned a number from 0 to 255.

The  range  (0  to 255) was chosen because it coincides with the most common counting unit in computer systems, a unit called  a  byte.

In computers,  information  is  stored in bits and bytes.

The bit is the most fundamental counting or storage unit, while a byte is  the  most useful  one.

A bit contains one of two possible values, and can best be thought of as a tiny on-off switch on  an  electrical  circuit.

A byte,  on  the  other hand, contains the total value represented by 8 bits.

The value can be interpreted in many ways, such as a  numerical value,  an  alphabet  character  or symbol, or a pixel shaded between black and white.

In a byte, the position of  each  bit  represents  a counting power of 2.

(By convention, bit patterns are read from right to  left.)  Thus,  the  first bit (the righmost bit) of the eight bit sequence represents 2 to the zero power, the second bit refers  to  2 to  the  1 power, and so on.

For each bit in a byte that has a one in it, you add the value of that power of two (the sequence value) until all eight bits are counted.

For example, if the  byte  has  the  bit value of 00101101, then it represents the number 45.

The binary table at  the  end of this document shows how translation of bits and bytes to numbers is done.

If all the bits in an eight-bit  sequence  are  ones,  then  it  will correspond  to  the  value 255.

That is the maximum value that a byte can count to.

Thus, if a byte is used to represent shades of gray  in an  image,  then by convention the lowest value, zero, corresponds to pure black, while the highest value 255, corresponds to  pure  white.

All other values are intermediate shades of gray.

When  the  values  for  all  the  pixels have been assigned, they are either sent directly to a receiver on Earth  or  stored  on  magnetic tape to be sent later.

Data are typically stored on tape on board the spacecraft when the signals are going to be temporarily blocked, such as  when  Voyager  passes  behind  a  planet or a satellite.

For each image, and its total of 640,000 pixels, 5,120,000 bits of  data  must be  transmitted  (640,000  x  8).

When Voyager flew close to Jupiter, data were transmitted back to Earth at a rate of  more  than  100,000 bits  per  second.

This  meant  that  once  data  began reaching the antennas on Earth's surface,  information  for  complete  images  was received in about 1 minute for each transmission.

As  the  distance of the spacecraft from Earth increases, the quality of the radioed data stream decreases and the rate of transmission  of data  has  to  be  slowed  correspondingly.

Thus, at the distance of Uranus, the data has to be transmitted some six to eight times slower than could be done at Jupiter.

That means that only one  picture  can be  transmitted  in  the  time  six  pictures  were taken at Jupiter.

However, for the Uranus encounter, scientists and engineers devised a scheme to get around that limitation.

The  scheme  was  called  data compression.

To  do  that,  they  reprogrammed the spacecraft en route.

Instead of having Voyager transmit the full 8 bits for each pixel, its computers were instructed to send back only the differences between  brightness levels of successive pixels.

That reduced the data bits needed for an image  by  about 60 percent.

Slowing the transmission rate meant that noise did not interfere with the image reception, and by  compressing the data, a full array of striking images was received.

The computers at  NASA's  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory  (JPL)  restored  the correct brightness  to  each  pixel,  producing  both   black-and-white   and full-color images.

The  radio  signals  that a spacecraft such as Voyager sends to Earth are received by a system of large dish antennas called the Deep Space Network (DSN).

The DSN  is  designed  to  provide  command,  control, tracking  and  data  acquisition  for deep space missions.

Configured around the globe at locations approximately 120  degrees  apart,  DSN provides 24-hour line-of-sight coverage.

Stations  are  located  at  Goldstone,  California,  and near Madrid, Spain, and Canberra,  Australia.

The  DSN,  managed  by  NASA's  Jet Propulsion  Laboratory  in  Pasadena,  California,  consists of three 64-meter  (210-ft)  diameter  dish-shaped  antennas,   six   34-meter (111-ft)  diameter  antennas, and three 26-meter (85-ft) antennas.

As antennas at one  station  lose  contact,  due  to  Earth's  rotation, antennas  at  the next station rotate into view and take over the job of receiving spacecraft data.

While one station is  tracking  a  deep space  mission,  such  as  Voyager,  the  other two are busy tracking spacecraft elsewhere in the sky.

During Voyager's contact with Saturn, the DSN recovered more than  99 percent of th 17,000 images transmitted.

That accomplishment required the  use of a technique known as "antenna arraying." Arraying for the Saturn encounter was accomplished by  electronically  adding  signals received  by two antennas at each site.

Because of the great distance Uranus is from the Earth, the signal received from Voyager 2 was only one-fourth as strong as  the  signal  received  from  Saturn.

A  new arraying  technique,  which  combined signals from four antennas, was used during the Uranus encounter to allow up to 21,600 bits  of  data to be received each second.

Arraying's   biggest  payoff  came  in  Australia,  whose  government provided its Parkes Radio Astronomy Observatory 64-meter  antenna  to be  linked  with  the  DSN's three-antenna complex near Canberra.

The most critical events of the  encounter,  including  Voyager's  closet approaches  to Uranus and its satellites, were designed to occur when the spacecraft would be transmitting to the complex in Australia.

The data were successfully relayed to JPL through that array.

The DSN was able to  track  Voyager's  position  at  Saturn  with  an accuracy of nearly 150 kilometers (about 90 miles) during its closest approach.

This   accuracy  was  achieved  by  using  the  network's radiometric system, the spacecraft's cameras, and a technique  called Very  Long  Baseline  Interferometry,  or  VLBI.

VLBI determines the direction  of  the  spacecraft  by  precisely  measuring  the  slight difference  between  the time of arrival of the signal at two or more ground antennas.

The same technique was used at  Uranus  to  aim  the spacecraft so accurately that the deflection of its trajectory caused by the planet's gravity would sent it on to Neptune.

When  the  DSN  antennas receive the information from the spacecraft, computers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory store it  for  future  use and  reassemble  it into images.

To recreate a picture from data that has been sent across the vacuum of space, computers read the data bit by  bit,  calculating  the  values  for each pixel and converting the value into a small square of light.

The squares are  displayed  on  a television  screen  on  the  spacecraft.

The  resulting  image is a black-and-white facsimile of the object being measured.

Color images can be made by taking three  black-and-white  frames  in succession  and  blending  ("registering") them on one another in the three color-planes of a television screen.

In order for that to work, however, each of the three frames has to be taken by  the  camera  on board the spacecraft through different filters.

On Voyager, one frame is  taken through a blue filter, one through a green, and one through an orange.

Filters have varying effects on the amount of light  being  measured.

For  example,  light passes through a blue filter will favor the blue values in the image  making  them  appear  brighter  or  transparent, whereas  red or orange values will appear much darker than normal.

On Earth the three images  are  given  the  appropriate  colors  of  the filters through which they were measured and then blended together to give a color image.

An  important  feat  the interplanetary spacecraft must accomplish is focusing on its target while  traveling  at  extremely  high  speeds.

Voyager sped past Uranus at more then 40,000 miles an hour.

To get an unblurred  image,  the  cameras  on board had to steadily track their target while the camera shutters were open.

The technique to do this, called  image-motion  compensation,  involves  rotating  the   entire spacecraft  under  the  control  of  the  stabilizing gyroscopes.

The strategy was used successfully both at Saturn's satellite Rhea and at Uranus.

Both  times,   cameras   tracked   their   targets   without interruption.

Once  the  image is reconstructed by computers on Earth, it sometimes happens that objects appear nondescript  or  that  subtle  shades  in planetary  details  such  as  cloudtops cannot be discerned by visual examination alone.

This can be overcome, however, by adding  a  final "contrast  enhancement"  to  the  production.

The process of contrast enhancement is like adjusting the contrast and brightness controls on a television set.

Because the shades of the  image  are  broken  down into   picture  elements,  the  computer  can  increase  of  decrease brightness values of individual pixels,  thereby  exaggerating  their difference and sharpening even the tiniest details.

For  example,  suppose  a  portion  of  an  image returned from space reveals an  area  of  subtle  gray  tones.

Data  from  the  computer indicates  the  range in brightness values is between 98 and 120, and all are fairly evenly distributed.

To the unaided  eye,  the  portion appears  as  a  blurred  gray patch because the shades are too nearly similar to be discerned.

To  eliminate  this  visual  handicap,  the brightness  values  can  be  assigned  new numbers.

The shades can be spread farther apart, say five  shades  apart  rather  than  the  one currently  being  looked  at.

Because the data are already stored on computers, it is a fairly  easy  task  to  isolate  the  twenty-three values and assign them new ones: 98 could be assigned 20, 99 assigned 25,  and so on.

The resulting image is "enhanced" to the unaided eye, while the information is the same accurate data transmitted from  the vicinity of the object in space.

The  past  25 years of space travel and exploration have generated an unprecedented quantity of data from planetary systems.

Images  taken in  space and telemetered back to Earth have greatly aided scientists in formulating better and more accurate theories about the nature and origin of our Solar System.

Data gathered at close  range,  and  from above  the  distorting  effects of Earth's atmosphere, produce images far more detailed than pictures taken by even the largest Earth-bound telescopes.

In our search to understand the world as  well  as  the  universe  in which  we live, we have in one generation reached farther than in any other generation before us.

We  have  overcome  the  limitations  of looking  from  the surface of our planet and have traveled to others.

Whatever yearning drew those first stargazers from  the  security  of their  caves  to  look up at the night sky and wonder still draws men and women to the stars.

"War is a profanity because, let's face it, you've got two opposing sides trying to settle their differences by killing as many of each other as they can."  Which brings us to nuclear weapons...

Since the first test at Alamogordo, our world governments have exploded in total over 2000 of these devices at their bombing ranges (Lop Nor, Kazhakstan, Nevada, Micronesia).

They've done it in the air, on the ground, below the ground, and in the water.

The tests still go on today.

The purpose of this archive is to illuminate to the reader the effects of these nasty devices, and to warn against their use.

At this time, although the threat of a nuclear world war has reduced, there are other threats to our tentative peace which have emerged.

These involve regional conflicts, and the activities of terrorist parties or nations.

They involve issues such as plutonium smuggling, and the sale of weapons technology (possibly clandestine) to militaristic nations.

Continued nuclear testing is also another problem.

It reinforces the position of the London Club nations, and gives incentive to the rest of the world for removing their monopoly.

In fact, this was China's justification for joining the Club.

With Pakistan and North Korea's incipient entry, horizontal proliferation is a tangible threat.

You can expect nations involved in regional conflicts to back their threats up with a nuclear fist if they have one.

If you have a weapon and your survival is threatened, there is a strong chance you will use it in defense, no matter the consequences.

This was the U.S.

Government's justification for the A-bombing of Japan.

It saved the lives of their soldiers.

Little mention was made of Japanese civilians (collateral damage).

The decision to bomb Japan was made in secret.

This led directly to the arms race we are currently involved in.

Russia felt threatened, and embarked on its own bomb program, eventually producing one in 1949.

In turn, the Americans felt threatened, and embarked on the thermonuclear program.

This culminated in the pivotal Mike test of 1952.

Nuclear blackmail during the Korean War led China to make a bomb.

Public disclosure and discussion before Hiroshima would have helped avoid the situation we are in today.

Hence the need for an informed and vigilant worldwide public.

Within the nucleus of a cell are found the chromosomes, long irregular threads of genetic material.

These chromosomes are arranged in pairs: 19 pairs in a cat, 23 pairs in a human.

It is these 38 chromosomes that contain the "blueprint" for the individual cat.

When inspected under a microscope, the chromosomes reveal irregular light and dark bands:  hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions per chromosome.

These light and dark bands are the genes, the actual genetic codes.

Each gene controls a single feature or group of fea- tures in the makeup of the individual.

Many genes interact:  a single feature may be controlled by one, two, or a dozen genes.

This makes the mapping of the genes difficult, and only a few major genes have been mapped out for the cat.

The chromosome is itself composed primarily of the macromolecule DNA, (deoxyribonucleic acid):  one single molecule running the entire length of the chromosome.

DNA is a double helix, like two springs wound within each other.

Each helix is composed of a long chain of alternating phosphate and deoxyribose units, connected helix to helix by ladder-like rungs of four differing purine and pyridamine com- pounds.

It is not the number of differing compounds that provide the secret of DNA's success, but rather the number of rungs in the ladder (uncounted millions) and the order of the amino acids that make up the rungs.

The four different amino acids are arranged in groups of three, form- ing a 64-letter alphabet.

This alphabet is used to compose words of varying length, each of which is a gene (one particular letter is always used to indicate the start of a gene).

Each gene controls the development of a specific characteristic of the lifeform.

There is an all-but-infinite number of possible genes.

As a result, the DNA of a lifeform contains its blueprint, no two alike, and the variety and numbers of possible lifeforms has even today barely begun.

              Mitosis and Mendel  When a cell has absorbed enough of the various amino acids and other compounds necessary, it makes another cell by dividing.

This process is called mitosis, and is fundamental to life.

Not too long ago, it was thought that the chromosomes were generated immediately prior to mitosis, and dissolved away afterwards.

This turned out not to be true.

The extremely tiny chromosomes, normally invisible in an optical microscope, shorten and thicken during mito- sis, becoming visible temporarily.

The rather complex process of mitosis can perhaps be explained simply as a step-by-step process:  Mitosis begins when the cell senses sufficient growth and nutrients to   ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Feline Genetics                                                Page 2   support two cells.

The invisible chromosomes duplicate themselves through the wonder of DNA replication.

Various enzymes are used as keys to unlock and unwind the double helix into two single helices.

Each of these he- lices then uses other enzymes to lock the proper parts (the amino acids and other stuff) together to build a new second helix, complete with all transverse rungs, so that the results will be exact replicas of the original double helix.

This winding and unwinding of the DNA can take place at speeds up to 1800 rpm!  The two daughter chromosomes remain joined at a single point, called the centromere.

The cromosomes then wind themselves up, shortening and thickening, making them visible under the microscope, and attach themselves to the nuclear membrane.

The nuclear membrane then dissolves into a fibrous spindle, with at least one fiber passing through each centromere (there are many more fibers than centromeres).

The fibers then stretch and pull the centromeres apart, pulling the chromosomes to opposite sides of the cell.

The spindles dissolve into two new nuclear membranes, one around each group of chromosomes.

The chromosomes unwind back into invisibility, the cell divides, and mitosis is complete.

Genetically, each daughter cell is an exact duplicate of the parent cell.

Since the genetic coding is carried in the rungs of the DNA and only consists of four different materials arranged in groups of three to form words of varying length written with a 64-letter alphabet, the instructions for a "cat" may be considered to consist of two sets of 19 "books," each millions of words long, one set from each of the cat's parents.

The numbers of possible instructions are more than astronomical:  there are far more possible instructions in one single chromosome than there are atoms in the known universe!  A single gene is a group of instructions of some indeterminate length.

Somewhere among all the other codes is a set of instructions composing the "white" gene, and what that set says will determine if the cat is white or non-white.

Since a cat receives two sets of instructions, one from each parent, what happens when one parent says "make the fur white" and the other says "make the fur non-white"?  Will they effect a compromise and make the fur pastel?  No, they will not.

Each and every single gene has at least two levels of expression (many have more), called alleles, which will determine the overall effect.

In the case given, the "make the fur white" allele, "W", is dominant, while the "make the fur non- white" allele, "w", is recessive.

As a result, the fur may be white or non-white, not pastel (we're only speaking of the "white" gene here, a gray cat is caused by an entirely different gene).

The double-dominant "WW" white cat has only white alleles in its white genes.

It is classed as homozygous (same-celled) for white, and will produce only white offspring, regardless of the karyotype of its mate.

The single-dominant "Ww" or "wW" white cat has one of each allele in its white genes.

It is classed as heterozygous (different-celled) for white, and may or may not produce white offspring, depending upon the karyotype of its mate.

The recessive "ww" non-white cat has only non-white alleles in its white genes.

It is classed as homozygous for non-white, and may or may not produce white offspring, depending upon the karyotype of its mate.

Assuming these cats mate, there are sixteen different possible karyo- type combinations.

Since each cat in these sixteen combinations will pass on to their offspring one and only one allele, there are four possible genetic combinations from each mating.

There are sixty-four possible combinations of offspring.

Palpation is a physical exam of the breast.

The doctor examines each breast and underarm by feeling the tissue.

Although a doctor can tell a lot by the way the lump feels, no one can be certain what a lump is just by palpation.

Aspiration, also called fine needle aspiration can help the doctor discover whether the lump is a cyst (fluid-filled) or a solid mass of tissue.

Aspiration is usually done in the doctor's office.

First, the doctor uses a local anesthetic to numb the area.

Then, the doctor inserts a needle into the lump and tries to withdraw fluid.

If it is a cyst, removing the fluid will collapse it.

The fluid may be sent to a laboratory for testing to be sure no cancer cells are present.

When the lump is solid, the doctor sometimes removes a sample of cells with the needle.

These cells are then sent to a laboratory for analysis.

A mammogram is a type of x-ray that creates an image of the breast on film or paper.

It can help determine whether a lump is benign or cancerous.

In fact, it often can detect cancer in the breast before a lump can be felt.

The National Cancer Institute (NCI) suggests that beginning at age 40, all women should have a mammogram every 1 to 2 years.

When a woman reaches 50, she should have a mammogram each year.

A doctor may also recommend a mammogram if any sign or symptom of breast cancer is found, regardless of age.

Several other methods also are being studied.

None is now reliable enough to be used alone, but they may be helpful when combined with other methods.

Ultrasound uses high-frequency sound waves to get an image of the breast and can help determine if a lump is a cyst or a solid mass.

It is usually used along with palpation and mammography.

Diaphanography, or transillumination, shines a light through the breast to show its inner features.

Thermography measures the heat patterns in the breast to produce an image.

A biopsy is the only certain way to learn whether a breast lump or suspicious area seen on a mammogram is cancer.

In a biopsy, the doctor surgically removes all or part of the lump and sends it to the laboratory for analysis.

There are several biopsy methods that a doctor may use: needle biopsy, incisional biopsy, excisional biopsy, and mammographic localization with biopsy.

Occasionally the doctor will do a needle biopsy to remove a small amount of tissue from the lump.

A needle biopsy can be performed in the doctor's office.

This is most often done when cancer is suspected and the doctor hopes to confirm the diagnosis immediately.

If cancer is not found, a more thorough biopsy will follow.

Once, it was thought that inserting a needle or cutting into a breast lump might cause cancer to spread.

This is not true.

An incisional biopsy is the surgical removal of a portion of a lump.

This procedure is often used when the growth is very large.

Again, if no cancer is found, a more thorough biopsy may follow to make sure the entire lump is free of cancer.

In an excisional biopsy the doctor removes the entire lump.

This is currently the "standard" biopsy procedure and the most thorough method of diagnosis.

Incisional and excisional biopsies are usually done in the outpatient department of a hospital.

Either a local or general anesthetic may be used.

Mammographic localization with biopsy (also known as needle localization) is used for suspicious areas such as microcalcifications (tiny specks of calcium) that cannot be felt but can be seen on a mammogram.

During this procedure the breast is x-rayed and small needles are placed to outline the suspicious area for the surgeon who then removes the tissue for biopsy.

This can be done using a local anesthetic in the outpatient department of a hospital.

Your doctor may suggest one or more of these procedures to evaluate a lump or other change in your breast.

The doctor may also suggest watching the suspicious area for a month or two.

Because many lumps are caused by normal hormonal changes, this waiting period may provide additional information.

However, if you feel uncomfortable about waiting, speak with your doctor about your concerns.

You also may want to get a second opinion, perhaps from a breast specialist or surgeon.

Many cities have breast clinics where you can get a second opinion.

The Cancer Information Service also may be able to help you locate doctors to consult.

What will the doctor be able to learn from a biopsy?  The biopsy can tell the doctor whether your lump is benign or malignant.

If it is cancer, your doctor will talk with you about choices of treatments, and you may be advised to get a second opinion.

(You can call the Cancer Information Service for other NCI publications that deal with breast cancer treatment.) If no cancer is found, you may be told that the lump or suspicious area is the result of a fibrocystic condition, fibrocystic disease, benign breast disease, or one of many other conditions.

Remember, 80 percent of all breast lumps are not cancer.

What is a fibrocystic condition, fibrocystic disease, or benign breast disease?  Unfortunately, doctors do not agree on standard terms for benign breast changes.

We prefer to use the term benign breast condition for those changes in a woman's breasts that are not cancerous.

These include normal changes that occur during the menstrual cycle as well as benign lumps that can appear in the breast.

If your doctor uses a different term, or one you do not understand, ask for an explanation.

How many women have a benign breast condition?  It is estimated that at least 50 percent of all women have irregular or "lumpy" breasts.

In addition, many doctors believe that nearly all women have some benign breast changes beginning at age 30.

A woman is more likely to have these breast changes if she has never had children, has had irregular menstrual cycles, has a family history of breast cancer, or is thin.

Women who have had more than one child and women who are taking birth control pills have a reduced risk.

What are the symptoms of a benign breast condition?  Women may have increased "lumpiness" with tenderness, pain, and swelling just before their period begins.

These symptoms lessen after the menstrual period, only to reappear the next month.

Many women find that these symptoms disappear after menopause.

Benign breast lumps may appear at any time.

Some cause pain, others don't.

They may be large or small, soft or rubbery, fluid- filled or solid, and movable.

In addition, some benign breast conditions may produce a discharge from the nipple.

JUST TWO DECADES ago, black holes were an interesting footnote to our astronomical theories that few non-specialists had heard about.

Today, black holes have "arrived" - one hears about them in Hollywood thrillers, in cartoon strips, and more and more on the science pages of your local newspaper.

What exactly are these intriguing cosmic objects and why have they so captured the imagination of astronomers and the public?  A black hole is what remains after the death of a very massive star.

Although stars seem reasonably permanent on human time scales, we know that over the eons all stars will run out of fuel and eventually die.

When smaller stars like our own Sun burn out, they simply shrink under there own weight until they become so compact they cannot be compressed any further.

(This will not happen to the Sun for billions of years, so there is no reason to add a rider to your home owners policy at this time!)  When the largest (most massive) stars have no more fuel left, they have a much more dramatic demise in store for them.

These stars have so much material that they just cannot support themselves once their nuclear fires go out.

Current theories predict that nothing can stop the collapse of these huge stars.	Once they begin to die, whatever remains of them will collapse FOREVER.

As the collapsing star falls in on itself, pull of gravity near its surface will increase.	Eventually its pull will become so great that nothing - not even light - can escape, the star will look BLACK to an outside observer.

And anything you throw into it will never return.

Hence astronomers have dubbed these collapsed stellar corpses "black holes."  Alert readers will quickly note that this expanation of black holes does not bode well for finding one.

How do we detect something that cannot give off any light (or other form of radiation)?  You might suggest that we can spot a black hole as it blocks the light of stars that happens to lie behind it.

That might work if the black hole hovered near the Earth, but for any black holes that are a respectful distance away in space, the part of the sky it would cover would be so small as to be invisible.

To make matters worse, the sort of black hole that forms from a single collapsing star would be only 10 or 20 miles across - totally insignificant in size compared to most objects astronomers study and much too small to help a distant black hole hunter on Earth.

The size of a black hole, by the way, is not the size of the collapsing star remnant.

The stuff of the former star does continue to collapse forever inside the black hole.

What gives the hole its "size" is a special zone around the star's collapsing core, called the "event horizon." If you are outside this zone, and you have a powerfull rocket, you still have a chance to get away.

Once you passed inside this zone, the gravitational pull of the collapsing stuff is so great, nothing you can do can help you from being pulled inexorably to your doom.

The name "event horizon" comes from the fact that once objects are inside the zone, events that happen to them can no longer be communicated to the outside world.

It is as if a tight "horizon" has been wrapped around the star.

How then could we detect these bizzare objects and verify the strange things predicted about them?  It turns out that far away from a black hole the only way to detect it is to "watch it eating."  If a black hole forms in a single star system, there is very little material close to the collapsed remnant for its enormous gravity to pull in.

But we believe that more than half of the stars form in double, triple or multiple systems.

When two stars orbit each other in proximity, and one becomes a black hole, the other one may have some difficult times ahead.

Under the right circumstances, material from the outer regions of the normal star will begin to flow toward its black hole companion.

As particles of this stolen material are pulled into a twisting, whirling stream around the black hole's event horizon, they are heated to enormous temperatures.

They quickly become so hot that they glow - not just with visable light, but with far more energetic X-rays.

(Of course, all this can be seen only above the event horizon; once the material falls into the horizon, we have no way of ever seeing it again.)  Astronomers began searching in the 1970s for the tell-tale X-rays that indicate that a black hole is consuming a part of its neighbor star.

Since cosmic X-rays are blocked by the Earth's atmosphere, these observations became possible only when we could launch sensitive X-ray telescopes into space.

But in the last decade and a half, at least three excellent candidates for a "feeding" black hole have been identified.

Probably the best-known case is called Cygnus X-1, a system in the constellation of Cygnus the swan, in which we see a normal star that appears to be going around a region of space with nothing visable in it.

Smack dab from the middle of that region, we see just the sort of X-rays that reveal the stream of material being sucked into the hole.

While this sort of indirect evidence is not quite as satisfying as seeing a black hole "up close," for now (and perhaps fortunately) it will have to do.

What is intriguing astronomers these days is the posibility that enormous black holes may have formed in crowded regions of space.

These may not just eat part of a companion star, but may actually consume many of their neighbor stars eventually.

What we would then have is an even larger black hole, able to eat even more of the material in its immediate neighborhood.

In the most populated areas of a galaxy - for example, its center - black holes may ultimately form that contain the material of a million or billion stars.	In recent years, astronomers have begun to see tantalizing evidence from the center of our own galaxy and from violent galaxies in the distant reaches of space indicating that such supermassive black holes may be more common than we ever imagined.

If this evidence is further confirmed, we may find that the strange black hole plays an important role not only in the death of a few stars but even in the way entire galaxies of stars evolve.

Prologue:  Before launching into the body of this article, there are a few things that I want to set straight.

First, those who dislike films are advised to re-read the title.

To the best of my knowledge, a good number of science fiction buffs, myself included, moonlight as film fans.

I've had enough experience though with all of the various subgenres within the sf/horror field to know that there may be many polar opposites, and I don't expect everyone to be into films.	It is to those readers who find cinema more bearable than fingernails on a blackboard, and most of all for my own pleasure, that this article is written.

As a footnote, those who dislike film "fans" and look down at buffs of that or any other entertainment medium, earn somewhat less respect from yours truly.

(The same principle applies to film buffs with a similar snobbish attitude toward nonfilm buffs.) I can better understand opposition to all vicarious imitations of life than I can to one specific type.

In my opinion, matters of private taste cannot legitimately be represented as dogma without exposing the proponent as a pompous fool.

Any door that fails to swing both ways is nothing more than a sham.

Second, while all of the films reviewed here in capsule form are available to television there isn't a "made-for-TV" picture in the lot.

Everything here received some, if in many cases very limited, theatrical distribution.	The thoughts expressed reflect nothing more concrete than my own subjective impressions.

I also want to stress that the "standards" employed are those observed during more casual viewings such as on television.

Entertainment value, except that provided by unintentional camp, has most definitely been taken into consideration.

This may appear self-evident, but a handful of self-styled "Film Scholars" look down on this approach.

In one sense, the following collection was compiled at random, but in another, the structure is deceptively formal.

My avoidance of over-publicized titles is deliberate.

Many of the best---and many of the worst---films in the genre have been exposed to the point of absolutely indelible deja-vu.

You will find no signs of Bride of Frankenstein, Night of the Living Dead, Alien or King Kong (the first version) here.	Neither, granting equal time for the same reason, will you be forced to encounter the movies over-exposed due to their "lack" of quality such as Plan Nine From Outer Space, Robot Monster, Bride of the Monster, and Cat Women of the Moon.) Sitting through films of this prestigious nature may offer greater promise of satisfaction, but if I read one more word about them, I'll scream!  As a result of my efforts to bypass monotony, the majority of those films I've chosen to cover are relatively obscure, even among circles of horror/sf/fantasy film fans.

As a further result, most are ultra-low budget (not necessarily a pejorative), shoe-string and independent productions that ended up being distributed to quickie first-run openings, the drive-in circuit, kiddies' matinees and all-night flophouses, if at all.

Even on the tube, treatment is shabby; these are more likely run as late night second features and specialty shows than on the networks (although, ironically, that's where two on this list debute TV-wise).

The names at the end of each capsule review are those of the lead players; the country at the opening denotes the origin.

+  +  +  The Astro-Zombies (USA, 1971).

The title gives us an accurate picture.

Mindless, amateurish mishmash of pseudo-horror and espionage as operatives of "both" sides compete for a mad doctor's reanimation device.

Neither seems particularly concerned that the "zombies" automatically engage in murderous rampages, and we, the audience, aren't given any clear indication of the motives behind such anti-social behaviour other than that the reanimated corpses are instantly struck with a compulsion to kill females.

(The "mad scientist," incidentally, is aided by a traditionally hunchbacked lab assistant, while an ever present and unidentified woman spends the entire picture strapped to a table, periodically screaming and fainting, but serving no apparent purpose other than the titillation of kinkier viewers.) Absurdist trash might be tolerated by the kiddies, but it's doubtful that anyone else will go for it.

Even the laughs, and they do exist to a limited extent, aren't enough to prevent the itches from attacking.

Tom Pace, Joan Patrick, John Carradine, Wendall Corey, Rafael Campes, Victor Izay.

Boy Who Cried Werewolf (USA, 1973) This lightweight mediocrity reminiscent of the slightly more palatable 50's quickies is no great shakes, but does relatively well considering the extent of potentially lethal drawbacks facing it.

(For example, the incredibly unconvincing "make-up" closely resembling a second-rate Halloween costume, laughably hammy acting by the person behind the obvious mask, the cornball equation of "hippy" and "Jesus" movements, the intrusion of exceptionally bad comedy relief and some stereotypic soap opera exchanged between the film's love interests.) A man is turned into Werewolf by a lycanthropy bite received during a wilderness trip and is discovered by his prepubescent son whose vain attempts to convince others that his findings are more than flights of fancy justify the title.

Merely fair (and then only by grade "B" standards), yet still a miniature cut above its economic counterparts, but leaves little, if any after taste.

Not worth going out of one's way to see, and probably won't make a powerful enough impression to be remembered on anyone's "ten worst" list, but at least it shouldn't agonize shut-ins.

Scott Sealey, Kerwin Matthews, Elaine Devry, Bob Hommel, Robert J Wilke, Susan Foster.

Cave of the Living Dead (Germany, 1962) Atrociously dubbed and talky, plodding and chiefly uneventful crud effort at combining espionage and horror.

The secret agent investigating mass murders suspected to be of a cloak and dagger nature learns that they were actually committed by a colony of modern day vampires.

Dullsville incarnate.

Health and Welfare should attach a warning to this one.

Carl Mohner, Adrian Hoven, John Kitzmiller, Wolfgang Priess.

Creature With the Blue Hand (Germany, 1969) Another in the string of oddball crime films Germans are so fond of labelling "horror." Most are released directly to TV in this country, although this one was an exception, having been distributed with the Phillipines-shot Beast of the Yellow Night.

This badly dubbed murder mystery with horror overtones tells of an innocent man wrongly convicted of being a costumed mass murderer (the uniform's glove is blue; hence the title, which is an example of limb climbing if I've ever seen it) who escapes prison intent on establishing innocence by (literally) unmasking the true culprit.

No better and no worse than others of its ilk; about average, in fact, but in light of the field's general condition, I see no reason to torture oneself.

Harold Leipnitz, Klaus Kinski, Diana Koerning, Carl Lange.

Equinox (USA, 1968) An amateur film, which was rewarded with (limited) commercial release after being screened by poverty-row distributors, shows it's home movie origins (except in the surprisingly good special effects and the talented script) and for that reason alone may be unfairly condemned without a trial by purists and pseudo-intellectuals, but if so, it's their loss.

Redeemed by a consistently bizarre atmosphere, this is no unforgettable classic, but it is several cuts above the average "cheapie." College students come up against satanic forces while searching for a professor (Fritz Leiber in a brief but pivotal role) who disappeared while investigating the occult in a rural site.

The script consistently alternates the refreshingly plausible (as grade B horror films go) and the outrageous.

This film was more impressive at the release date, before screen depictions of Satan and his minions had grown commonplace.

Edward Connel, Barbara Hewitt.

Frankenstein's Bloody Terror (Spain, 1968) Ohmigod!  Most foreign cheapies are pretty bad, yes, but this utterly brainless garbage, apparently designed with grade-schoolers intentionally in mind, makes the others look good.

Most imports suffer from tawdry American treatment (bad dubbing, editing, etc.) and while this is no exception, it looks as if it were miserable to begin with.

Unfortunate viewers will wonder what the title has to do with the content if they miss the brief (and probably tacked on by US distributors) explanation that the Frankenstein clan changed it's name somewhere along the line to "Wolfstein" and were cursed with lycanthropy as punishment for the Baron's crimes.

Yeah, sure.

Worse yet, the miasmic plot concentrates on an unrelated man turned into a werewolf by a bite from (you guessed) it) Wolfstein.	Further complicating this topsy-turvy mess, his efforts to find a cure lead to his unwitting involvement with a vampire pair posing as professional exorcists to secure a steady stream of victims.

Unsurpassed idiocy.

Among the screen's darkest moments.

The extremely tacky look that leaves no question about the picture's financial status compounds my amazement that this one ever made it to other shores.

Paul Naschy (the Spanish John Belushi), Diana Zura, Mike Manza, Gilbert Granger, Anita Avery.

The Fury (Usa, 1978) Poor old Brian DePalma temporarily lived down his positive reputation with this tedious hokum, as bad as most of the worst "C" cheapies, but without the excuse of a shoestring budget to make it more tolerable.

A muddled fantasy-horror-espionage combination where, following the abduction of his telekinetic son, a former spy sets out to crush an unscrupulous cloak and dagger outfit utilizing paranormal secret weapons.

No sense of enthusiasm is radiated, although it is to be assumed that at least a smidgen was involved.

This vapid absurdity is dull enough that the potential for camp is rarely realized.

Kirk Douglas, Amy Irving, Carrie Snodgrass, John Casavettes, Charles During, Carol Rossen, Andrew Stevens.

Invasion From Inner Earth (Canada, 1974) Markedly shoddy physical appearance, an indicator of the virtually nonexistent budget is transcended by stress-building tension and a weird atmosphere in an eerie Night of the Living Dead imitation.

Travelers stranded in a strangely deserted rural Manitoba encounter aggressive emissaries of a subterranean race.

Attention to a "hollow Earth" theory and a brooding sense of doom dominates this cheap but creepy little yarn.

Certain elements, like the theft of The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly theme song are better left ignored.

This film is no classic, but has more to offer than it initially leads us to believe.

Slightly more competent acting than traditionally associated with these ultra-cheapies comes in handy.

Paul Bentzen, Debbie Pick, Nick Holt, Karl Wallace.

Let's Scare Jessica to Death (USA, 1971) Regarded as a "mini-sleeper" by some, this uneven shocker does indeed posses isolated moments, but they are too far between to sustain closer examination.

A string of film clips might have been more effective...	A former mental patient and her husband move to a small town inhabited by vampires.

Her observations are, of course, taken as symptomatic of mental illness.	The moderately unexciting script could benefit from a more stable flow of events.

This one has potential, but is skittish.

Zhora Lampert, Kevin O'Conner, Barton Heyward, Gretchen Corbett, Mark Claire-Costello.

Lost Continent (UK, 1969) (This is not to be confused with the earlier "dinosaur" film of the same name.) This painfully juvenile film adaptation of Denis Wheatley's Uncharted Island might satisfy the youngsters, but it is unsuitable fare for anyone else.

In a Victorian setting, sea-going smugglers and their unwary passengers are stranded in unfamiliar territory where they run into monsters and a hostile civilization.

Nothing much happens, which means that Wheatley's novel must not have been followed very closely.

This is not just a bad Hammer film, but a bad film period, and not at all what we've come to expect from the England.

Eric Porter, Hildegare Neff, Tony Beckley, Nigel Stock, Suzannah Leigh.

Man Who Haunted Himself (UK, 1970) Imaginative, and stylish, if somewhat prolix, novelty.

As the title implies, an executive recently discharged from the hospital is jeopardized by his unscrupulous double.

No Citizen Kane, but this obscure, almost unknown sf movie should be seen by those who insist that the field has never produced anything of worth.

The "surprise" ending, previously used in another picture is predictable, but what the heck.

Viewers who didn't see the antecedent might be impressed.

Roger Moore, Hildegarde Neil (not Neff), Anton Rogers, Olga Georges-Picon, Thorley Waters, Alastair MacKenzie.

Man With the Icy Eyes (Italy/USA, 1971) This inept crime/melodrama/mystery with almost incidental supernatural overtones isn't as inspired as some in the foreign-cheapie category, and never attains more than run-of-the-mill stature.

Likewise, the uneven dubbing isn't uniformly bad, but just obvious enough to let us know that it wasn't shot in Hollywood.

A newspaper is menaced by elements of both mortal and occult origin while trying to vindicate an erroneously convicted assassin.

The obvious efforts at trying to generate suspense fail.	Fair as late night TV features go, an evaluation which you may interpret as you like.	Antonio Sabato, Barbara Bouchet, Victor Buono, Keenan Wynn.

People That Time Forgot (UK - USA, 1977) The dinosaurs are more convincing than the virtually catatonic lead player, although the supporting cast is adequate at light work.

If one is able to ignore Patrick Wayne's wooden performance and some of the uproariously sexist dialogue (causing one to wonder if this is what the title refers to), this so-so film version of E R B's novel is one of the more palatable of the special kiddie matinee-oriented fantasy adventures.

A search party hunting a missing war hero in the Antarctic discover a "lost" tropical area populated by prehistoric beasts, warring tribesmen, and the obligatory volcano.	No new ground is broken, but the execution is somewhat above the average lost world opus.

The inconsistent special effects alternate between the exemplary and the poor.

This innocuous froth holds little for anyone past puberty, but if you can recall your younger days, it's not too bad.

Beside Wayne, principals include Sarah Douglas, Thorley Waters, Dana Gillespie, Doug McClure.

S-S-S-S (USA, 1973) Almost no atmosphere or suspense, but a mildly diverting script and a lack of pretension make up for it.

An unwitting college student is subjected to experiments by a typically deranged serum researcher intent on solving our problems by creating a snake-Homo Sapiens hybrid.

A fun film, with a healthy sense of vitality, this one is raised from being another juvenile "monster-on- the-loose" picture by not taking itself too seriously.

The tounge-in-cheek approach plays it straight for the kiddies, and as near-satire for adults.

Strother Martin, Dirk Benedict, Heather Menzies, Jack Gina, Richard B Shull.

Stanley (USA, 1970) This one seems indecisive about whether it wants to be psychological horror, action-adventure, mild crime, or an "anti- establishment youth cult" film.

It compromises in nearly episodic fashion, and as a result, fails miserably in each department.

The first half, straight adventure, focusing on a defender-of- wildlife Vietnam veteran (who happens to be a native American) who skirmishes with a band of villainous hunters is just typical haphazard cheap film fare.

It goes progressively downhill in the second half where he abruptly transforms into a homicidal maniac using snakes as a murder weapons.

The one- dimensional nature is emphasized by the film's pretension of "making a statement".

Unbelievable finale.

Chris Robinson, Susan Carole, Alex Rocco, Steve Alaimo.

Teenage Zombies (USA, 1960) When players actually speak lines like "eck" and "ugh", you know what to expect.

Incredibly bad, outrageously amateurish, substandard by even home movie standards, this is representative of the era ostentatiously oriented toward adolescents, but aimed more at prepubescent minds.	This is a downright embarassment, wherein teenage castaways on a tropical island become the target of a female mad scientist employed by "the Enemy" to conduct mind control experiments.

The plot to turn the good guys into mindless vegetables is foiled, of course, but the calibre of acting talen makes one wonder.

The bulk of monster antics are supplied by the obligatory and homicidal lab assistant.

One of the all-time worst, this falls short of approaching it's own unique form of high art.

You won't quite believe the stupidity unraveling before your eyes.	Don Sullivan, Katherine Victor, Steve Conte.

Thin Air (UK, 1968, aka The Body Stealers) The tepid script condemns well-made sf/super/spy concoction to mediocrity.

The government agent assigned to investigate disappearances of key military personnel discovers that they were abducted by hostile aliens.

Moderately dreary, but quickly forgotten.

Patrick Allen, Lorna Velda, George Saunders, Hillary Dwyer, Maurice Evans, Neil Connery, Allan Cuthbertson.

Tower of Terror (UK, 1971) Not much atmosphere, and only a tad more suspense, a fairly enjoyable psychoshocker/mystery/-suspense yarn.

As two of the most vital ingredients in the film are left dangling (although continuity appears intact in all other departments), it seems likely that this film suffered unwise editing.

A co-ed turns amateur sleuth to avenge the victimization of a close friend by the rapist-murderer plaguing the campus.

Not up to the level of most UK thrillers, but a cut above the average American cheapie, it lies somewhere in between.

Suzy Kendall, Frank Finley, James Laurenson, James Donald.

The Twisted Brain (USA, 1974, alternate title, Horror High) Fantastically predictable but somehow mildly entertaining formula cheapie (due to competent acting), a downtrodden (and conventionally milquetoast) student is afflicted with chemically- induced split personality and goes on to wipe out his enemies while under the influence of his alter ego.

Heavily flawed, but acceptable on it's own shoddy terms.

Trashy, but for the lenient, amiable.

Pat Cardi, Rose Holotik, Austin Stoker, John Niland.

Valley of Gwangi (USA, 1969) The prestigious Ray Harryhausen special effects can't hide the fact that every cliche in the books is used here, and the story is a welfare recipient's rehash of King Kong.

This extremely poor combination monster tale and trite western is recommended only for the most insistent completist.

A Wild West Show inadvertantly discovers a prehistoric valley.

After the predictable shenanagins take place, a dinosaur is captured, exhibited, and breaks loose, causing all manner of havoc.

Sound familiar?  In more ways than one, it is.

Unfortunately, the pathos element that made the forerunner work is conspicuously absent.

The merit of the visuals can't salvage the lame, anemic, lacklustre and quite tiresome screenplay.

Really plastic.

James Franciscus, Gilda Golan, Richard Carlson, Lawrence Naismith, Curtis Arden.

"Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.

Now we are engaged ina great civil war, testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure.

We are met on a great bat- tlefield of that war.

We have come to dedicate a portion of that field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live.

It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.

But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground.

The brave men, living and dead who struggled here have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract.

The world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here.

It is for us the living rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced.

It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us--that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion--that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain, that this nation under God shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth."  When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume, among the Powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.

That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.

Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shown, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.

But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.

--Such has been the patient sufferance of these Colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former Systems of Government.

The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States.

To prove this, let Facts be submitted to a candid world.

He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary for the public good.

He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent should be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them.

He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of large districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of Representation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidable to tyrants only.

He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their Public Records, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.

He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.

He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause others to be elected; whereby the Legislative Powers, incapable of Annihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise; the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without, and convulsions within.

He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for that purpose obstructing the Laws of Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to pass others to encourage their migration hither, and raising the conditions of new Appropriations of Lands.

He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary Powers.

He has made judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.

He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harass our People, and eat out their substance.

He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the Consent of our legislatures.

He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to the Civil Power.

He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent to their Acts of pretended legislation:  For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:  For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from Punishment for any Murders which they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States:  For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world:  For imposing taxes on us without our Consent:  For depriving us, in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury:  For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offences:  For abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouring Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlarging its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies:  For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, and altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments:  For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves invested with Power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.

He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his Protection and waging War against us.

He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and destroyed the lives of our people.

He is at this time transporting large armies of foreign mercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most barbarous ages, and totally unworthy of the Head of a civilized nation.

He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas to bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of their friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.

He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes and conditions.

In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress in the most humble terms:  Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by repeated injury.

A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free People.

Nor have We been wanting in attention to our British brethren.

We have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us.

We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here.

We have appealed to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which would inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence.

They too have been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity.

We must, therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, in Peace Friends.

We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by the Authority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do.

And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the Protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.

We the people of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.

Article 1  Section 1.

All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.

Section 2.

The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of the several States, and the electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislature.

No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years a citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen.

Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other Persons.

The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by law Direct.

The number of Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty Thousand, but each State shall have at least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.

When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies.

The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other Officers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.

Section 3.

The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the legislature thereof, for six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote.

Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first Election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes.

The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at the expiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the expiration of the fourth Year, and of the third Class at the expiration of the sixth Year, so that one third may be chosen every second Year; and if vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the recess of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporary Appointments until the next meeting of the Legislature, which shall then fill such Vacancies.

No person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.

The Vice-President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.

The Senate shall choose their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice-President, or when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United States.

The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments.

When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation.

When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.

Judgment in cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under the United States:  but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.

Section 4.

The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.

The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by law appoint a different Day.

Section 5.

Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.

Each house may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for disorderly Behavior, and, with the Concurrence of two-thirds, expel a Member.

Each house shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.

Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Section 6.

The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.

They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.

No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office under the authority of the United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been increased during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the United States, shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office.

Section 7.

All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills.

Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it.

If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that house shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a law.

But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively.

If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which case it shall not be a Law.

Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States; and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.

Section 8.

The Congress shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;  To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;  To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes;  To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;  To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;  To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin of the United States;  To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;  To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;  To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;  To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offenses against the Law of Nations;  To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;  To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer term than two Years;  To provide and maintain a Navy;  To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;  To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;  To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;  To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, Dockyards, and other needful Buildings;--And  To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.

Section 9.

The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or Duty may be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person.

The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.

No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.

No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.

No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.

No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.

No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time.

No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States; and no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.

Section 10.

No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.

No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Controul of the Congress.

No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.

ARTICLE 2  Section 1.

The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.

He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice President chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:  Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress:  but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.

The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not lie an Inhabitant of the same State with themselves.

And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate.

The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votes shall then be counted.

The Person having the greatest Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an equal Number of votes, then the House of Representatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President.

But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; a Quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice.

In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President.

But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.

The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same throughout the United States.

No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.

In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.

The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during the Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them.

Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:--"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States."  Section 2.

The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in Cases of impeachment.

He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.

The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next session.

Section 3.

He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the Officers of the United States.

Section 4.

The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

ARTICLE THREE  Section 1.

The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.

The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good behavior, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.

Section 2.

The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;--to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;--to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;--to Controversies to which the United States shall be a Party;--to Controversies between two or more States;--between a State and Citizens of another State;--between Citizens of different States; --between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.

In all cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction.

In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.

The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.

Section 3.

Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort.

No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court.

The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.

ARTICLE FOUR  Section 1.

Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State.

And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records, and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.

Section 2.

The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.

A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.

No person held to Service or Labor in one State, under the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labor, But shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labor may be due.

Section 3.

New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new States shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or more States, or Parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress.

The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any particular State.

Section 4.

The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.

ARTICLE FIVE  The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in the ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of it's equal Suffrage in the Senate.

ARTICLE SIX  All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this Constitution, as under the Confederation.

This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.

The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States  ARTICLE SEVEN  The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same.

Done in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the Twelfth        In Witness whereof We have hereunto subscribed our Names,  Go.

WASHINGTON-- Presid.

and deputy from Virginia  The food tables and data methods based on "EATER'S CHOICE: PATIENT GUIDE" are the guidelines of the American Heart Association.

The key to the plan is controlling your intake of the nutrient that most affects blood cholesterol levels - saturated fat.

Saturated Fat:  Fats contain a mixture of fatty acids - saturated, monosaturated, and polyunsaturated.

Animal fats contain a greater proportion of saturated fatty acids, which raise blood cholesterol levels; vegetable oils usually contain a greater proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which lower blood cholesterol levels.

The more saturated the fat, the more solid it is at room temperature.

Examples of saturated fat include beef fat, butter, lard, shortening, coconut oil, and chocolate.

Figuring your Daily Allowance of Saturated Fat:  The Heart Association recommends that no more than 10% of your total calories come from saturated fat.

Translating Your Saturated Fat Quota Into Foods:  Keep track of the foods you eat during the day, along with their saturated fat calories.

Limit your saturated fat intake to the 10% level calculated.

You may want to begin by determining which foods your saturated fat calories are coming from.

You can then decide which foods to cut back on or eliminate to lower your saturated fat intake.

Food tables will also help you choose foods low in saturated fat to substitute for foods high in saturated fat.

Controlling Dietary Cholesterol and Other Fats:  Dietary cholesterol can be controlled by simply eliminating the few high cholesterol foods ( egg yolks, organ meats, sardines, and shrimp).

Substituting polyunsaturated margarines and oils for butter and shortening will give you adequate polyunsaturated fat.

Ingredients: 2 cans Mexi-Corn (drained)    1 cup mayo (not salad                         dressing) 1 cup sour cream              1 cup shredded cheddar                         cheese several green onions          Cayenne pepper to taste (I (shallots) chopped (about     use 1-2 tsp.

or more) 1/2 - 1 bunch) Salt to taste  Instructions: Stir it all together and refrigerate...

serve with tortilla chips or Fritos  Comments: Del Monte has a version of mexi-corn, regular corn will do in a pinch but this with pepper bits is best Enjoy! TRUST ME on this one, it sounds BIZARRE but it is very good  Ingredients: One 16 oz.

bag dried shell    One 12 oz.

bag dried pasta                         vegetable spiral pasta                         (different colors) One can whole pitted black    One can baby corn olives One jar or can artichoke      One small can sliced water hearts (if it comes in a      chestnuts marinated sauce, it only adds to the flavor) One small jar pimentos        One bottle Italian dressing                         (of your choice -- just make                         sure it has a garlic base)  Instructions: Heat water to boiling, add a pinch of salt, and a teaspoon of vegetable oil.

Boil pasta until tender, but firm.

Rinse thoroughly with cold water until pasta is cool; drain water.

Add Italian dressing, other vegetables.

Stir until thoroughly mixed.

Chill overnight in refrigerator.

Comments: Schwartz -- try making pasta salad.

Here is a recipe with my personal preferences for what to put in it, but you can add or substitute anything which happens to suit your fancy, such as fresh mushrooms, chickpeas, etc.

In Silicon Valley some of the country's best computer hackers are talking about acts of civil disobedience in cyberspace.

Their target is a plan by the Federal Government to discourage a proliferation coding schemes that insure electronic conversations are private - from everyone including the authorities.

Under a plan being pushed by the Clinton Administation, the computer industry would be strongly encouraged to adopt a new data scrambling standard, embodied in a device called the Clipper Chip, that would allow law enforcement agencies, armed with the court orders, to eavesdrop on electronic communications.

Earlier this month, Vice President Al Gore said the proposed standard was an important law and order issue for the Administration.

The danger, he warned, is that unchecked computer coding technology will make it possible for terrorists and criminals to have secret electronic conversations.

The White House is also pressing for legislation that would require telephone networks, cable companies and wireless communications services to install systems that allow law enforcers to listen in...

While the Clipper system is voluntary today, a coalition of Silicon Valley business executives and civil liberties advocates argues that there is no guarentee that it won't be mandatory by a future Administration.

In the meantime, it could become a de facto standard as companies that want to do Government business would have to install the chips in their products.

Furthermore the Government could use existing export laws to require Clipper chips in any computers shipped to other countries.

"They're asking us to ship millions of computers abroad with a chip stamped J.

Edgar Hoover inside," said John Gage, director of the science office at the Sun Microsystems Inc., a maker of computer work stations based in Moutain View, Calif, "We refuse to do it." A Silicon Valley group called Cypherpunks, which wants to make free and powerful cryptography avaliable to the masses, has been discussing ways to trick officials into thinking the keys to the Clipper code have been stolen.

Others are considering violating export restriction laws by sending thousands of copies of encoding software out of the country over the Internet.

In fact, the ability to devise coding schemes - unbreakable even by the most powerful supercomputers - is so widespread that trying to impose a unviersal standard may be like trying to enforce Prohibition.

Home-brew coding software can be easily exported by electronic runrunners on computer disks or instantly sent over electronic networks to any city in the world.

With Clipper, which was developed by the National Security Agency, communications are mathematically scrambled with an unbreakable code, but an extra set of two keys - actually long numbers - would permit authorized third parties to listen in, with the same restrictions that now apply to wiretapping.

As a safeguard, both keys would be required to minitor conversations.

But some opponents argue that the system could still be abused by Government officals or clever hackers who are able to steal the code.

They also point out that despite claims that the Clipper is necessary for national security, no other foreign Government or foreign company has indicated that it is willing to use a coding system that is breakable by the United Sates spying agencies.

Even close allies like Canada and Britian have said that they are not willing to adopt Clipper.

Last week, Michael Nelson, an Administration offical in charge of technology policy, broadcast an electronic mail message over the Internet to reassure computer users that the Government has no intention of enforcing mandatory encrytion.

But skeptics remain unpersuaded.

"They are utterly transfixed with the horrible vision of the nuclear armed terrorist," said John Perry  Barlow, a founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a public interest computer group that is campaigning to stop the Clipper chip.

"This is the last ditch effort of the old superpowers trying to establish imperial control over Cyberspace." Across the Internet, activists aren't waiting for the Government to back down.

They're pressing ahead with their own coding software and disseminating it over the networks.

A programmer named Philip Zimmerman has written free software called Pretty Good Privacy for protecting electronic mail messages.

The program touched off a Justice Department investigation  after it was sent overseas through international networks.

Now Mr.

Zimmerman is working on another free program that will allow personal computers, equipped with microphones, speakers and conventional high-speed modems, to act as secure telephones, allowing their users to have private conversations that can't be overheard.

This promises to be about as popular with Clipper supporters as radar detectors are will the highway patrol.

Have you made your New Year's Resolutions yet? I haven't, but then again, I NEVER make them, so nothing has changed [grin].

Well, Congress has never made any New Year's resolutions before, either.

But I plan to change that.

My article this month is a list of resolutions -I- think Congress needs to make.

First and foremost: Fiscal responsibility.

My number one complaint with Congress is that it doesn't know how to keep a balanced budget OR how to keep from increasing spending.

It's high time we saw drastic cuts in governmental programs.

Welfare is the best place to cut.

The Republicans are claiming they will be reforming welfare.

Guys, I've got news for you: Welfare doesn't need reform.

It needs elimination.

The Republicans are also working on a Balanced Budget Amendment.

EXCELLENT! If they can pull this off, Congress will begin to come back to a more beneficial state for the people.

Second, take a stance on important issues and make some policy.

The issue of gays in the military is a prime example of the flip-flop of Congress and the Executive branch.

Either allow them or disallow them.

Make up your mind what you are going to do.

This type of stance will make big enemies, but equitable compromise is not going to be reached.

The one exception to this would be abortion.

This is a moral issue, and not the government's responsibility.

Government funding to abortion clinics should cease, and let the other abortion-related issues settle themselves out.

But besides that, it is time for Congress to tell the people what they have decided to do.

No more waffling.

Third, work together with the other two branches of government.

Mostly this applies to the Presidency, but to a lesser degree, also the Judicial branch.

Gridlock, we all know, is something that has existed forever.

I am not suggesting an end to gridlock.

Gridlock can be very good.

But the government needs to go out, see what the people of America want, and work together to do it.

If it means tax cuts, then cut the taxes.

Tax money does NOT belong to the government.

If the people want a cut, GIVE IT TO THEM.

Make up for it by taking out wasteful programs, like welfare.

Finally, destroy the civil-help programs, including welfare, medicaid, medicare, and other bureaucracies.

Government is for the express purpose of governing.

We are paying them to make laws, enforce them, keep them in line with the Constitution, and defend our country from enemy nations.

When they begin intruding into the private sectors, offering hand-outs, making promises to cure social ills, and trying to be our big brother, they make a mess.

Government has NEVER successfully instituted a social program that was successful in elimintating the poor and homelessness problems, or curing the social/family ills of a nation.

NEVER.

So stop trying, please.

I am paying you to govern, not to patronize.

Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich calls public broadcasting the "media of the elite", and subsequently wants federal funding for it to be eliminated.

Both the label and the proposal are preposterous; they are the fingerprint of the Gingrich Regime: silly and unjustified.

First, the label.

Gingrich considers CNN and C-Span, the cable network's answer to public broadcasting's educational programs, the real arena of action.

He believes that public broadcasting is, as cited before, "the media of the elite".

Anyone who thinks it over will realize that his labels are simply untrue.

Public broadcasting is free, and anyone can use it.

It features programs that appeal to children and adults, liberals and conservatives, and men and women.

A wide, diverse cross-section of America uses public broadcasting, and appreciates it tremendously.

Anyone can tap into public broadcasting's vast expanse of information, and many people do.

On the other hand, consider cable television.

CNN and C-Span, while certainly worthwhile stations, come with a price tag attached.

They do not reach the rural parts of the country.

In fact, about 40 percent of the country does not receive cable.

Calling public broadcasting the "media of the elite" is an outrage and an insult to anyone who grew up watching Sesame Street and Mr.

Roger's Neighborhood.

It is a complete hypocrisy; it is parallel to calling a homeless man an "elitist", and labeling a wealthy aristocrat a working-class American.

Next, the merits of public broadcasting over cable television.

Public broadcasting is, bar none, the crown jewels of the media.

It provides high-quality, educational programming, such as "Sesame Street", for children, or, as a local example, "Donnybrook", for adults.

The programs stimulate thought and creativity; they inform viewers about the issues of the day.

Public broadcasting is cheap for taxpayers: each resident of the country pays only twenty-nine cents per year.

And, finally, and most importantly, anyone can access public broadcasting, regardless of their social status: public broadcasting is free.

Public broadcasting is an excellent example of public and private sector cooperation.

In stark contrast, cable television does not surpass public broadcasting in any way.

Far from it: cable television represents the worst that media can be.

The cable alternative is one of extreme violence, inexcusable language, and extremely immoral adult scenes.

Conservatives, who despise this programming and cry that it is eroding our morals, must remember that destroying public television will leave only the immoral contents of cable television to entertain children and adults alike.

Furthermore, cable television cannot and never will reach everyone.

It is far too expensive for cable companies to reach rural areas, and cable television will always cost a monthly bill.

Therefore, only well-off suburban or urban residents can access cable, leaving the rural viewers and the poor out in the dark.

Eliminating governmental funding from public broadcasting will certainly destory a number of public television stations, and seriously cripple many others.

Many rural stations will certainly fall almost immediately.

Others will only barely manage to provide their services.

Meanwhile, urban stations will suffer as well.

While most will not immediately cut off services, almost all will certainly have to decrease the quality of their programming to compensate for the lost funds.

Meanwhile, taxpayers will not feel the difference in their pockets.

While millions of federal dollars might seem an incredible burden, it would not be enough to significantly decrease the deficit, or pay for any substantial tax decreases.

Taxpayers will hurt if federal funds are recalled.

Their children will not have access to shows like "Sesame Street", that teach the kind of morals that adults would be proud of.

Their children would be subject to the mercy of ruthless cable television, the source of many horrible programs.

Taxpayers themselves would no longer benifit from interesting and intelligent news shows, such as the McNeil-Lehrer News Hour.

They could no longer rely on the unparalleled news analysis of the MacLaughlin Group or Donnybrook.

No taxpayer would have the advantage of waking up each morning to National Public Radio's morning show.

Again, adults would have to rely on commercial television to replace public broadcasting, which it could not do.

Public broadcasting is a boon to everyone.

It is the best example of working, effective, government cooperation with the private sector.

It costs taxpayers almost nothing, yet public broadcasting educates, stimulates, and entertains viewers.

Government could not provide us with a better service for a lower price, and we would be ill advised to eliminate it.

To even consider replacing public television with cable is the most outragoues and ludicrous notion ever considered.

It should be swiftly and resoundingly rejected by the Congress.

I was asked to write a small article about our 1995 plans at POM.

Well, I'll do just that, but please bear in mind, these are just plans, and nothing has been finalized.

Number one on our agenda is this: Getting more writers.

A magazine can not be good without content.

And right now, we are suffering, and we are suffering drastically.

We are scowering every place imaginable, looking for articles to put into POM, like the excerpted article "The Two Party System Myth" this month.

If you would like to write, please contact us, using the information at the end of the magazine.

When we -do- have enough writers, we will get the Political Chat Match up and running every month.

The Match is an online debate that we capture and then place into POM each month.

We had planned to do the Match from the very beginning, but a lack of dedicated writers thus far has prevented us from doing it.

Also, we plan to get a forum reserved on the Den of Happiness BBS, get an official Internet address, and open up a WWIVnet POM subboard.

These three advances will help us automate our distribution, as well as spread out and reach more people.

I am also working with someone who will put POM in the Rush Limbaugh subs on CompuServe, as well as people to distribute POM on GEnie, Delphi, Prodigy, and the new e*World.

We plan on getting White House press releases delivered to our online address as they come out, so hopefully we can pick out interesting ones and put them in POM.

No other magazine (Printed or online) offers White House press releases for public consumption.

These and other changes will be attempted throughout 1995.

If, indeed, we can pull all of this off, we will rise to the forefront of online magazines.

We are determined to get better and better, until WE are the standard.

You can help us.

Send us feedback, continue to read us, and maybe even write an article for us.

POM plans to do '95, and do it good.

Hello, all! I am Kevin Salks, a relatively new writer to POM.

I plan on writing monthly.

If YOU can write at all, I encourage you to help out and do so as well.

Anyway, this column is about MY views, which are inherantly moderate.

Today I am tackling a topic that has come to the forefront of the media: Newt Gingrich, speaker of the House, and his book deal.

Recently, Gingrich announced he had made plans with a major printing company to write a book.

Now, obviously the question arises: Isn't this a conflict of interest? Writing a book while in a position of legislation is not exactly conducive to legislating.

However badly this move was thought out, the media has jumped at the chance to dent the new Republican Speaker's reputation.

With a new Republican majority in both the House and the Senate, Gingrich is a leader of the GOP.

The media, notoriously Democrat and biased to liberalism, has been searching for a scapegoat.

And they've found one.

Now, here is the ultimate question: Is this treatment justified? I must say no.

Why? A simple reason, of course.

Mr.

Gingrich's deals are his own business.

However if the public feels this is such a bad thing, they WILL speak up about it.

And then an inquiry may begin, thus resolving once and for all any problems or conflicts.

But I have another point of light to bring up.

Former-senator (now Vice President) Albert Gore wrote a book while serving as a senator.

Yet nothing was said about it.

Well, unless you count the reviews of the book and the promoters raving it.

What was this book? It was a slew of Mr.

Gore's personal feelings on such topics as animal rights and the environment.

Mr.

Gore, in case you didn't know, is a staunch liberal Democrat.

Perhaps this is why nothing was ever mentioned about his writing a book being a possible conflict of interest.

It all boils down to this: The media is biased, and they have let that show through way too much.

Whether writing a book while in office is indeed a conflict of interest remains to be resolved.

But the media certainly has it's motives for reporting this incident way off kilter.

If I remember correctly, they are supposed to be informing the public of happenings in an objective, unbiased method.

This has not happened.

To those responsible for this absurdity, I say "STOP IT!" And to Newt: You made a blunder.

At least this gives you a lesson in how the media eats Republicans alive.

Next time something like this happens, make sure you think the moral and civil implications through very carefully.

And to Mr.

Gore: Why aren't you commenting on this? Perhaps it's time to cross partisan boundaries and defend Mr.

Gingrich, or even better, denounce both of your actions.

People in the United States have been clinging to a myth for a very long time now - that the United States is a two party system.

Heck, they use the term "bipartisan" as if it means that all views are represented, when in fact it is only two opinions out of many.

We Libertarians know this is incorrect (and we have been using the term ourselves lately in Columbia, meaning Libertarians and Greens), but it's nice to have it verified by outside sources.

The source I used is my old college days history textbook: _Essentials_Of_American_History_.

It lists all of the Presidential elections from 1789 (I added 1988 and 1992): it lists most of the candidates who got anything near a significant vote total or an electoral vote.

See the chart below (Ed.

Note: At the end of the article)  As you can see, in fact a _three-way_ race is more common than any other.

Three-way races make up 44% of all of our Presidential elections, as a matter of fact (23 out of 52 total), and two- candidate races only make up 37% of all Presidential elections in history...

We have even had a few four and five-way races as well (19% of all elections).

And as an interesting note, look at how rare a two-way race is in the 20th Century as compared to the previous one.

Perhaps we could speculate WHY the cycle swings from multi-candidate elections to two- candidate elections.

It may have something to do with social upheaval -  you can point to many of the multi-party swings and they tend to correspond with social movements such as women's suffrage, the civil rights movement, etc.

They also somewhat correspond to economic stability as well, such as the current economic crisis (our national debt) corresponds with the current multi- candidate swing in the cycle.

I'm sure a more competent political scientist than I can figure out what happens and why:  the important thing is that, whatever the reasons, you can see that indeed multi-candidate and multi-partisan politics are no strangers to democracy in the United States.

Bill Clinton's Presidency is in a very troubled situation.

The crime bill which he loved so dearly suffered a major reduction last year in the House of Representatives.

It passed, but has had no effect on the old Gephardt health-care reform bill, which First Lady Hillary Clinton said was closer to the original Health Security Act of 1994, offered by the Clintons originally.

With health-care reform as one of the main, if not the main issue, the Clinton Administration is on the brink of a very dangerous political cliff.

But how has Clinton's administration proceded so far?  The oft-criticized administration has had various successes and failures, from everything from the economy to foreign policy.

The following is a look at some of the issues facing the President:  Clinton has so far stressed the economy more than any other problem facing the country, or seemingly so.

As of last year, the unemployment rate had fallen 1.5% since his inaguration, seeming to indicate success.

However, his economic plan far exceeded simply dealing with unemployment.

Budget Deficit: Clinton entered office with a $329.1 billion deficit, and 20% of the population angry as wet hens about the national debt.

Since then, the deficit has fallen to an estimated $167 billion for Fiscal Year 1995.

Clinton started with a deficit-reduction bill last summer, which would cut, over several years, $500 billion.

That figure is now estimated at $700 billion worth of cuts, due mostly to rising revenue, not falling spending.

The Clinton administration now repetitively boasts the first three years of deficit reduction since Harry Truman (despite the fact that the first year of deficit reduction -- fiscal year 1993 -- was initiated by George Bush.)  "Reforms": Bill Clinton and his administration may be known in history as the most sweeping social reformer since Lyndon B.

Johnson.

He once tried reforming both the health-insurance system, a feat on its own, and is now trying to reform the welfare system, a task which is none too easy.

To Clinton's credit is his very dilligent work on reforming the health-insurance system, perhaps one of the most earnest, massive efforts since Medicare and Medicaid.

As a result, the country could have seen one of two things: either a very massive change for the better in health insurance, or a very angry group of voters at the polls last November.

Guess which one happened.

The health-insurance reforms have faced numerous misinformation attacks, as well as informed attacks on the original Health Security Act, such as the large bureacracies which it would set up.

Also attacked, with good reason, were the methods of funding, primarily the employer mandate, which continues to face extinction in Congress.

Bill Clinton has worked remarkably hard for the health-care reforms he promised the country, and they have thus far been thoroughly defeated.

In the meanwhile, the President has also started working, much more quietly, on welfare reform.

His proposal, which attempts to put an end to subsidizing of teenage mothers, and to put people back on a payroll, were overshadowed heavily by the health-care reform efforts.

Now that Congress is controlled by welfare-hating Republicans, is reform imminent?  Free Trade: In 1993, President Clinton put forth a large lobbying effort as he attempted to pass the North America Free Trade Agreement, despite attacks by labor unions and Ross Perot.

Since that time, the economy seems stable, and exports to Mexico appear to be on the rise.

He worked on a much broader, though quieter, attempt at free trade.

Acceptance of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, has been a quiet goal of the Clinton administration.

This is one of the few goals they were able to attain.

The treaty will lower or freeze many international tariffs, and, among other things, establish a World Trade Organization to oversee the regulations of trade in participating countries.

Combining all these aspects of his economic plan, the President claims good economic stability.

It is true -- somewhat.

Although the economy has been growing steadily, the Federal Reserve Board, having raised interest rates, is now trying to slow down that growth to a slow but steady beat.

Some political speculators believe that this move is intended to prepare for stimulated growth in late 1995 or during 1996, the next presidential election year.

When he was selected as Vice Presidential running mate, Al Gore's history was as an environmentalist Senator from Tennessee.

However, the dminsitration has not conducted any broad efforts to favor the nvironment recently, except for a policy issued two years ago that the hite House would buy and use recycled paper, a light victory for ecyclers, whose overflowing stock of recycled paper was beginning to treaten the future of the recycling effort.

Clinton has been fairly quiet on human rights, with a few exceptions.

However, certain issues seem to stand out in the last two years.

Clinton started off his presidency with a review of the Army's policy towards homosexuals.

Although his public image was somewhat scarred by strong opposition from such military experts as Colin Powell and Sam Nunn, Clinton was able to better the military policy with a compromise "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy, which has been criticized as a compromise of human rights.

The Clinton administration began with the army in Somalia, a move started in December of 1992.

The continuing effort there was labeled a humanitarian and democratic effort, and it was, until the death of 18 GIs forced Clinton to leave Somalia for safer ground.

Early last year, the administration, with strong efforts by former Majority Leader Gephardt, threatened to punish China's Most Favored Nation trade status as a result of continued, consistent, brutal human rights abuses.

Clinton, however, chose to renew the status, remarking on China's seat in the Security Council, and her fast growing economy, not to mention the reliance of over 100,000 jobs in the United States on Chinese importing and exporting.

His move quickly prompted criticism by human rights groups and many Congressmen, who blamed Clinton of sending a message to China: dictatorship and brutal human rights abuse would not only be tolerated, but also subsidized, by the United States.

On the home front, Clinton's stance on the death penalty has been brought into question.

The penalty, which was to be broadened in the crime bill, backfired on Clinton as some members of the House of Representatives found the death penalty too strong a barrier to them to allow it in the crime bill.

In the meanwhile, the debate has continued to spark controversy, although the Supreme Court has ruled it to be constitutional (in that it is not cruel and unusual).

Although usually a minor part of the administration, the Vice President has found a very active niche, relative to other Vice Presidents, in Clinton's administration.

Al Gore has established both the National Information Infrastructure and the National Performance Review (NPR).

The first was aimed at a federal role in the so-called Information Superhighway, and has prompted activation on the federal level to put the government on-line.

Many government agencies have found great success on the Internet, including the White House, and have been prompted by Gore's efforts to digitize the country.

Gore also worked on decreasing bureacracy in the NPR, and savings since then have been estimated in the billions.

Although the Vice President has not been palying a role in many controversial issues, he has played an important, unexpectedly active role in the administration.

For the last 8 years of his life, Galileo was under house arrest for espousing this man's theory	Copernicus.

No.

2: 1912 Olympian; football star at Carlisle Indian School; 6 MLB seasons with the Reds, Giants & Braves	Jim Thorpe.

The city of Yuma in this state has a record average of 4,055 hours of sunshine each year	Arizona.

In 1963, live on "The Art Linkletter Show", this company served its billionth burger	McDonald's.

Signer of the Dec.

of Indep., framer of the Constitution of Mass., second President of the United States	John Adams.

In the title of an Aesop fable, this insect shared billing with a grasshopper	the ant.

Built in 312 B.C.

to link Rome & the South of Italy, it's still in use today	the Appian Way.

No.

8: 30 steals for the Birmingham Barons; 2,306 steals for the Bulls	Michael Jordan.

In the winter of 1971-72, a record 1,122 inches of snow fell at Rainier Paradise Ranger Station in this state	Washington.

This housewares store was named for the packaging its merchandise came in & was first displayed on	Crate & Barrel.

"And away we go"	Jackie Gleason.

Cows regurgitate this from the first stomach to the mouth & chew it again	the cud.

In 1000 Rajaraja I of the Cholas battled to take this Indian Ocean island now known for its tea	Ceylon (or Sri Lanka).

No.

1: Lettered in hoops, football & lacrosse at Syracuse & if you think he couldn't act, ask his 11 "unclean" buddies	Jim Brown.

On June 28, 1994 the nat'l weather service began issuing this index that rates the intensity of the sun's radiation	the UV index.

This company's Accutron watch, introduced in 1960, had a guarantee of accuracy to within one minute a  month	Bulova.

Outlaw: "Murdered by a traitor and a coward whose name is not worthy to appear here"	Jesse James.

A small demon, or a mischievous child (who might be a little demon!)	imp.

Karl led the first of these Marxist organizational efforts; the second one began in 1889	the International.

No.

10: FB/LB for Columbia U.

in the 1920s; MVP for the Yankees in '27 & '36; "Gibraltar in Cleats"	(Lou) Gehrig.

Africa's lowest temperature was 11 degrees below zero in 1935 at Ifrane, just south of Fez in this country	Morocco.

Edward Teller & this man partnered in 1898 to sell high fashions to women	(Paul) Bonwit.

1939 Oscar winner: "...you are a credit to your craft, your race and to your family"	Hattie McDaniel (for her role in Gone with the Wind).

In geologic time one of these, shorter than an eon, is divided into periods & subdivided into epochs	era.

This Asian political party was founded in 1885 with "Indian National" as part of its name	the Congress Party.

No.

5: Only center to lead the NBA in assists; track scholarship to Kansas U.; marathoner; volleyballer	(Wilt) Chamberlain.

The Kirschner brothers, Don & Bill, named this ski company for themselves & the second-highest mountain	K2.

Revolutionary War hero: "His spirit is in Vermont now"	Ethan Allen.

A single layer of paper, or to perform one's craft diligently	ply.

Beyond ovoid abandonment, beyond ovoid betrayal...

you won't believe the ending when he "Hatches the Egg"	Horton.

California	Nixon.

It can be a place to leave your puppy when you take a trip, or a carrier for him that fits under an airplane seat	a kennel.

He's considered the author of the Pentateuch, which is hard to believe, as Deuteronomy continues after his death	Moses.

Steven Tyler of this band lent his steamin' vocals to "Train Kept A-Rollin'", first popularized by the Yardbirds	Aerosmith.

Around 100 A.D.

Tacitus wrote a book on how this art of persuasive speaking had declined since Cicero	oratory.

1 of the 2 born in Vermont	Coolidge (or Chester Arthur).

When it began on Pan Am & Qantas in the late '70s, it was basically a roped-off part of the economy cabin with free drinks	business class.

Ali, who married this man's daughter Fatima, is considered by Shia Muslims to be his true successor	Muhammed.

During the 1954-1955 Sun sessions, Elvis climbed aboard this train "sixteen coaches long"	the "Mystery Train".

The shorter glass seen here, or a quaint cocktail made with sugar & bitters	an old-fashioned.

Ripped from today's headlines, he was a turtle king gone mad; Mack was the one good turtle who'd bring him down	Yertle.

In 2003 this airline agreed to buy KLM, creating Europe's largest airline	Air France.

Philadelphia got its start as a colony for this religious group of which William Penn was a member	the Quakers.

This "Modern Girl" first hit the Billboard Top 10 with "Morning Train (Nine To Five)"	(Sheena) Easton.

This stiff silken fabric is favored for bridal gowns, like Christina Applegate's in 2001	organza.

Somewhere between truth & fiction lies Marco's reality...

on Halloween, you won't believe you saw it on this St.	Mulberry Street.

In 2004 United launched this new service that features low fares & more seats per plane	Ted.

With Mary I's accession in 1553 he ran to Geneva; he returned in 1559 & reformed the Church of Scotland	(John) Knox.

This band's "Train In Vain" was a hidden track on its original 1979 "London Calling" album	The Clash.

Cross-country skiing is sometimes referred to by these 2 letters, the same ones used to denote 90 in Roman numerals	XC.

"500 Hats"...

500 ways to die.

On July 4th, this young boy will defy a king...

& become a legend	Bartholomew Cubbins.

In the seat pocket you'll find the catalog called "Sky" this, with must-haves like a solar-powered patio umbrella	Mall.

In 1534 he & his buddy Francis Xavier founded the Society of Jesus	(St.

Ignatius) Loyola.

In 1961 James Brown announced "all aboard" for this train	"Night Train".

This 1797 imbroglio began when 3 French agents demanded a huge bribe from U.S.

diplomats	the XYZ Affair.

Objects that pass closer to the sun than Mercury have been named for this mythological figure	Icarus.

It's the largest kingdom in the United Kingdom	England.

"Party In The U.S.A." is by this singer who also plays a young lady named Hannah	Miley Cyrus.

If this part of a peach is downy or fuzzy, the fruit's called a peach; if it's smooth, a nectarine	the skin.

4 x 12	48.

This verb for bouncing a basketball sounds like you're slobbering	dribbling.

Blood pumper	heart.

(Tate: I'm Tate Shaffer aboard the National Geographic Endeavour.

Alex: And...)  We're here in the Galapagos Islands at zero degrees latitude, which means we're right above this imaginary line that goes all the way around the Earth	the equator.

"Everybody Else" knows these huggable toys precede "On Fire" in the name of a Radio Disney top 30 band; do you?	Care Bears.

Peaches are more than 80% this compound	H2O.

7 x 7 x 2	98.

Sound navigation& ranging is the full name for this device that bounces radio waves underwater	sonar.

Small, slender missile thrown at a board in a game	a dart.

This island in the South Pacific is named for the day of its discovery, a religious holiday	Easter Island.

"The songs on 'Under My Skin' are...deeper than those on 'Let Go'" said this Canadian on Radio Disney's website	Avril Lavigne.

5-letter word for the hard interior of a peach	the stone.

3 x 4 x 5 x 6	360.

In this kid's game, you bounce a small rubber ball while picking up 6-pronged metal objects	jacks.

It can be a separating line in your hair or a role in a play	a part.

Parts of the Arabian and Libyan deserts are found in this African country	Egypt.

"I Never Told You" this alliteratively named singer hit Disney's Top 30 with "Fallin' For You"; wait, I just did	Colbie Caillat.

These parts of a peach tree are glossy green, pointed & lance shaped	leaves.

5 x 10 x 15	750.

It's a type of bounce house, or a dance made famous by Michael Jackson	the moonwalk.

A graphic representation of information	a chart.

The family history you wrote for school might include entering the U.S.

at this island in New York Bay	Ellis Island.

Lead singer Ryan Tedder of this band has "All The Right Moves"	OneRepublic.

These parts of a peach tree grow at nodes along the shoots of the previous season's growth; they're usually pink	blossoms.

2 x 1,035	2,070.

This device whose name is from the Italian for "springboard" was perfected in the 1930s	a trampoline.

Composer Wolfgang	Mozart.

99.95% of the mass of an atom is in this part	the nucleus.

Park View of Chula Vista, California beat Taipei 6-3 to win this organization's 2009 World Series	the Little League.

This hero of several books is 11 when he discovers he's a wizard	Harry Potter.

Say the name of this type of mollusk you see	an octopus.

A 7.0 magnitude earthquake in this Caribbean country Jan.

12, 2010 brought a world outpouring of aid	Haiti.

It's the 4-letter name of the pleated skirt worn by men in Scotland	a kilt.

During this plant process, carbon dioxide & water combine with light energy to create oxygen & glucose	photosynthesis.

The perfect waves of New Zealand's Piha Beach were the site for the 2010 World Junior Championships of this	surfing.

This city, the seat of Clark County, Nevada, has been called "the entertainment capital of the world"	Las Vegas.

Say this state that was admitted to the Union in 1859	Oregon.

This car company has been in the news for widespread recalls of its Corollas & other models	Toyota.

As an adjective, it can mean proper; as a verb, "to grade papers"	correct.

The wedge is an adaptation of the simple machine called the inclined this	plane.

With a mighty leap of 5'1", David Mosely set the U.S.

10 & under record in this event back in 1977	the high jump.

This dog breed seen here is a loyal and protective companion	a German Shepherd.

Say the name of this bug; don't worry, it doesn't breathe fire	the dragonfly.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew demonstrates, putting his arm over his mouth.) To avoid spreading germs & maybe flu, we learned the sneeze named for this character made famous in an 1897 book	Dracula.

Maize is another word for this	corn.

Of the 6 noble gases on the periodic table, it is the lightest	helium.

11-year-old Ashlyn White won a 2009 U.S.

youth title in this martial art in which you try to throw your opponent	judo.

In 1751 the Penn Provincial Assembly placed the order for this symbol of freedom, now in Philadelphia	the Liberty Bell.

Say the name of these big trees; it has a color in it	redwood.

In a surprise, Ted Kennedy's old Senate seat in this state went to a Republican in a January 2010 election	Massachusetts.

This word for someone who walks comes from the Latin for "foot"	pedestrian.

Lava & igneous rock are formed from this hot liquid rock material found under the earth's crust	magma.

This sport has an under-17 World Cup every 2 years; Haris Seferovic starred for the 2009 champion Switzerland	soccer.

He's the older son of Prince Charles and the late Princess Diana	Prince William.

Say the name of this man you see shaking hands with the Premier of China	Ronald Reagan.

Falcon Heene, who it turned out was safe at home, not flying over Colorado, became known as this "boy"	the balloon boy.

Kayak is an example of this, a word that reads the same forwards & backwards	a palindrome.

She was born in Virginia around 1596 & died in Kent, England in 1617	Pocahontas.

Prime Minister Tony Blair dubbed her "The People's Princess"	Princess Diana.

Once Tommy Mullaney on "L.A.

Law", John Spencer now plays White House chief of staff Leo McGarry on this series	The West Wing.

The Cinderella Castle Mystery Tour is a highlight of this Asian city's Disneyland	Tokyo.

This punk rock hitmaker heard here has had numerous hits on both sides of the Atlantic	Billy Idol.

"Conrad begins (and ends) Marlow's journey...

on the Thames, on the yawl, Nellie", says the foreword to this novel	Heart of Darkness.

We'll look smart in these vehicles that returned to London in 1999	Trams (smart).

She was "The Untamed Heifer" & "The Virgin Queen"	Elizabeth I.

Barbra Streisand knows he played Lt.

Col.

Bill "Raider" Kelly on "Pensacola: Wings of Gold"	James Brolin.

The home of silk merchant Jim Thompson, who disappeared in 1967, is a tourist attraction in this Thai city	Bangkok.

Czar at 17, he was famous for extraordinary sadism & cruelty, even as a boy	Ivan the Terrible.

Part 2 "is Lilliput in reverse, but...also offers some of" his "fiercest assaults upon the behavior of" his countrymen	Jonathan Swift.

Ed leaves pools of water on the carpet when he comes in from sailing this boat	Sloop (pools).

Mark Antony called her "The Queen of Queens"	Cleopatra.

(Hi, I'm Wallace Langham)  I played Don Kirshner in VH1's TV movie about this quartet who sang "Daydream Believer"	The Monkees.

We're not stringing you along: this capital of the Czech Republic is famous for its puppet theatres	Prague.

Nudge, nudge, wink, wink!  This man seen here starred on a classic British comedy show	Eric Idle.

She said that her husband Frank O'Connor was the fuel that kept her spirited while she wrote "The Fountainhead"	Ayn Rand.

You'd be naive to think you can make bottled water that's more popular than this	Evian (naive).

The 19th century's "Widow of Windsor"	Queen Victoria.

Teri Hatcher looked "shipshape" as one of the singing "mermaids" who jumped on board this cruisin' series in 1985	The Love Boat.

Jomo Kenyatta International Airport serves this world capital	Nairobi, Kenya.

His is the first & longest book of the Bible's major prophets	Isaiah.

One edition calls this Darwin opus one of "the most readable and approachable" of revolutionary scientific works	The Origin of Species.

Aye, lass, I'll wed thee ere this has dried on the fields	Dew (wed).

"The Catholic" of 15th century Spain	Queen Isabella.

On "Saturday Night Live", he's famous for playing Craig the Cheerleader, Janet Reno & moi	Will Ferrell.

Andrea Palladio's 1554 book on "The Antiquities of" this city was the standard guidebook for some 200 years	Rome.

This auto exec's autobiography is one of the bestselling nonfiction works in publishing history	Lee Iacocca.

You know so much about policy, you qualify as this	Wonk (know).

After a 15-year stay in England, this proprietor of Pennsylvania returned to his colony in 1699	William Penn.

SFX is the standard abbreviation for these, from the rustling of trees to cannon fire	Sound effects.

Saint-Pierre & Miquelon	France.

Designer Vivienne Westwood ran a shop with Malcolm McLaren, who launched this Johnny Rotten band	The Sex Pistols.

Because he had the same thing for lunch every day for 20 years, Andy Warhol painted these, beginning in 1962	Campbell's Soup cans.

Lerner & Loewe's "Lusty Month" (3)	May.

This young man put his savings into a small Cleveland refinery in 1862 & eventually had an oil monopoly	John D.

Rockefeller.

Term for the flow of a film, maintained by keeping details consistent throughout a scene	Continuity.

Montserrat	Great Britain (United Kingdom).

Star designer John Galliano was born Juan Carlos Galliano in this British possession at the tip of Spain	Gibraltar.

Warhol went against his Capitalist tendencies with his portrait of this man, seen here	Mao Tse-tung.

Patrick Dennis' "Auntie" (4)	Mame.

First Lady Helen Taft led a fund-raising drive for a memorial to this 1912 marine disaster	Sinking of the Titanic.

Garland Jeffreys sang of having star-studded "dreams" of this size, like movie film	35mm.

Cook Islands	New Zealand.

Katharine Hamnett created the '80s T-shirt telling us to "choose" this	Life.

Andy's "15 minutes of fame" quote was once the motto of this magazine	Interview.

It "Becomes Electra" (8)	Mourning.

This Chiricahua Apache was a popular attraction at the 1904 World's Fair in St.

Louis	Geronimo.

The inventors of this camera-stabilizing device won a special 1977 Oscar	Steadicam.

Madeira Islands	Portugal.

Andy's loft on East 47th Street got this nickname from its former use & Andy's mass-production techniques	The Factory.

Colchian jilted by Jason (5)	Medea.

In 1801 this onetime VP compiled "A Manual of Parliamentary Practice" still used in the U.S.

Senate	Thomas Jefferson.

Near the end of the credits comes the "cutter" of this, the exposed but unfinished film	Negative cutter.

Northern Mariana Islands	USA.

Warhol became the manager of this Lou Reed rock group in 1965 & produced their first album	Velvet Underground.

Faust's fiendish foe (14)	Mephistopheles.

If Joe DiMaggio's hitting streak had gone one more game in 1941, this company would have given him a $10,000 contract	H.J.

Heinz (Heinz 57 Varieties).

This white, glossy coating on your teeth is the hardest substance in the human body	Enamel.

This bovine took the rap for the disastrous fire of October 8, 1871	Mrs.

O'Leary's cow.

It's the kingdom whose flag is seen here (Union Jack)	Great Britain/England.

Minoru Yamasaki reached new heights with this New York City complex	World Trade Center.

Quentin Tarantino directed this film & also had a bit role as Jimmy of Toluca Lake	Pulp Fiction.

A student, or a minor in Roman law	Pupil.

The time it takes for 50% of the atoms to decay in a radioactive substance is called this	Half-life.

At 14,140 feet, this Rocky Mountain peak discovered in 1806 is one of Colorado's highest	Pike's Peak.

Seen here is the flag of this nation (the home of Bollywood)	India.

William Pereira erected his Transamerica "Pyramid" in this city	San Francisco.

As mad bomber Howard Payne in this film, Dennis Hopper planted a bomb on an L.A.

area transit bus	Speed.

A blow with a whip	Lash.

While compounds of this element are added to table salt, in its pure form it's quite poisonous	Iodine.

While one creation slept, God took this to make Eve	Adam's rib.

Andy Garcia is a native of this country whose flag is seen here	Cuba.

Charles Bulfinch, who contributed to the Capitol in Washington, D.C., designed this city's state house on Beacon Hill	Boston.

Jean Vander Pyl, who played Wilma in the original cartoon series, played Mrs.

Feldspar in this movie adaptation	The Flintstones.

A hollow area that holds a light bulb	Socket.

The "super" class of these stars, the largest known, includes Antares & Betelgeuse	Red giants.

You'll find this triangular island about 4 miles off the southeast coast of Massachusetts	Martha's Vineyard.

In the 1990s, this nation whose flag is seen here moved its seat of government to a different city	Germany.

Dallas-Fort Worth Airport architect Gyo Obata helped design this Smithsonian museum	Air & Space Museum.

Containing the hit "Can You Feel The Love Tonight", it was Disney's first animated feature not based on an existing story	The Lion King.

Flower seen here (that fits the category)	Iris.

On the pH scale, a pH of 7 indicates this type of solution	Neutral.

In Exodus, this was thrown down before Pharaoh at Moses' instruction	Aaron's rod (turned into a snake).

This Mediterranean country whose flag is seen here is "The Word"	Greece.

Louis Skidmore designed the secret atomic site that became this Tennessee town	Oak Ridge.

In this film Martin Scorsese says the TV audience wants "To  watch the money"	Quiz Show.

People say these are what you need to make it in Hollywood	Contacts.

4 different species of bears live in Alaska:  Kodiak, grizzly, black & this	Polar bears.

Nike's stock fell when this basketball player announced his retirement in January 1999	Michael Jordan.

In Euripides' play about this famed beauty, it's her double who goes to Troy	Helen.

In 1996 John Travolta spread his wings as this archangel	Michael.

Porfirio Diaz seized power in this country in 1876, ruled for 35 years, fled in 1911 & died in exile	Mexico.

This term for a fluid can also mean "to sign" as a contract	Ink.

Tony Knowles is pulling in $81,648 per annum in this job	Governor.

Ronaldo Luiz Nazario de Lima began playing this sport for Brazil's national team at age 17	Soccer.

In a Shaw play, Caesar finds her hiding on a Sphinx	Cleopatra.

In Book III of "Paradise Lost", the angels play these, which are "golden" & "ever-tuned"	harps.

In 1462 this printer known for movable type had to move out of Mainz	Johannes Gutenberg.

Style of the 1877 painting seen here	Impressionism.

This second-largest Alaskan city wasn't named for an actor	Fairbanks.

Vladimir Samsonov is touted as Europe's only hope against China in this game	Ping-pong.

A 1952 play covered the young life of this queen, like a 1998 Cate Blanchett film	Elizabeth I.

ABBA sang about these & Curtis Lee sang about "Pretty Little" these	Angel Eyes.

Exiled for manslaughter, Eric the Red was forced to leave this country around 981	Iceland.

Arabic for "son of", it comes before names like Saud	Ibn.

One of the 3 mottos that have been featured on regular Alaskan license plates	"The Last Frontier", "The Great Land", or "North to the Future".

The Times of London estimates this chess player is taking home $20 mil.

a year; that's some check, mate!	Garry Kasparov.

In 1935 & '36 Helen Hayes reigned for 517 Broadway performances as this queen who reigned for 63 years	Victoria.

Group whose feast day is October 2, or a group founded in 1979 by Curtis Sliwa	Guardian Angels.

David Ben-Gurion went to the U.S.

in 1915 when this empire exiled Zionists from Palestine	Ottoman Empire.

From the Latin for "to overhang", it means "likely to happen at any moment"	Imminent.

The mainland peninsula closest to Russia is named for this man	William Seward.

New Zealand-born Jonah Lamu is tops on the pitch of this sport	Rugby.

The queen in Marlowe's "Edward II" is named this, like a famous queen of Spain	Isabella.

With an appropriate-sounding name, John Dye plays the angel of this on "Touched By An Angel"	Angel of Death.

Moshoeshoe II was exiled twice before regaining this southern African country's throne in 1995	Lesotho.

Some scientists believe that the universe is undergoing expansion called this, also an economic term	Inflation.

Bordering Italy, Austria, Hungary & Croatia, it's one of the world's newest independent countries	Slovenia.

His first act after being sworn in as president of the Confederacy was to send a peace commission to Washington, D.C.	Jefferson Davis.

On Sept.

14, 2005 she gave birth to Sean Preston Federline	Britney Spears.

Yeah, baby!  Meaning "magnificent", this Texas-sounding name comes with certain "Powers"	Austin.

;-) Ocular act that sends a signal	winking.

The Alamo is located in this city & is depicted on its flag	San Antonio.

Numerically speaking, read up on "Fun Stuff", "Fashion", "Health" & "Stars" at this magazine.com	seventeen.com.

Tired of eating mule jerky, Vicksburg fell in July 1863 after a 6-week one of these military tactics	a siege.

The TV show "Everybody Hates Chris" is based on the childhood of this comic	Chris Rock.

This name shared by great & terrible rulers is a Russian variation of John	Ivan.

:-$ It's where this emoticon tells you to "put your money"	where your mouth is.

This descriptive nickname of the U.S.

flag was coined by Francis Scott Key	the Star-Spangled Banner.

If you're triskaidekaphobic, you're afraid of this number, & not just on a Friday	thirteen.

Robert E.

Lee saved this capital from capture with his June 1862 attack on McClellan's forces	Richmond.

He auditioned for & won the part of Ron Weasley with a rap that he wrote	Rupert Grint.

This feminine form of Rex is from the Latin for "queen"	Regina.

:-* Gene Simmons might accept one of these from any pretty woman	a kiss.

The 2 colors found on all 3 national flags of the U.S., Mexico & Canada	red & white.

A holder for liquid, or a military base's general store	a canteen.

In Feb.

2005 a reenactment was staged for this 140th anniversary of this fort's reoccupation by Union troops	Fort Sumter.

Her 18th birthday party was "A Cinderella Story" with 300 guests & red velvet cake	Hilary Duff.

This Welsh form of Margaret was among the USA's top 10 girls' names of the 1990s	Megan.

=|:-)= This is an extension of the initials U.S.	Uncle Sam.

The flag of this U.S.

possession is almost the same as the flag of Cuba	Puerto Rico.

Golfing "hole" with a bar (where you can't go), or the amendment granting women's suffrage	19th.

On Sept.

2, 1864 this general sent a wire saying, "Atlanta is ours, and fairly won"	Sherman.

"You Stand Watching" this "Shine On" singer	Ryan Cabrera.

Previously attached to Theo- & Isa-, it became popular by itself after appearing in "David Copperfield"	Dora.

:-b..

Doing this means either you're hungry or you're a pig	drooling.

The first 50-star U.S.

flag was officially raised on July 4 of this year	1960.

Number of lines in Shakespeare's poem that starts "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"	14.

Ljubljana, Bratislava, Barcelona	Barcelona.

Mike Eruzione of Winthrop, Mass.

was captain of the miraculous 1980 Olympic team in this sport	hockey.

At sea level at 70 degrees this travels 1,129 feet per second; it speeds up over 1 foot per sec.

for each rising degree	sound.

"I beheld the wretch--the miserable monster whom I had created"	Mary Shelley.

Found "just what I needed" at this "City", an electronics store	Circuit City.

The name of this color comes from the Greek word porphyra	purple.

Istanbul, Ottawa, Amman	Istanbul.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew puts some lines on the ice in the Olympic Oval rink at Park City, UT.)  In 1998, this U.S.

skater was 2nd at Nagano; in 2002, she was 3rd here in Utah	Michelle Kwan.

The largest tree, the General Sherman in California, is this type, also called a Sierra Redwood	a sequoia.

"Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"	Edgar Allan Poe.

SKX is the stock symbol for this manufacturer of sporty shoes	Skechers.

A bowl-shaped depression, as from the impact of a meteorite, it's from the Greek for "mixing bowl"	crater.

Sofia, Sarajevo, Saigon	Saigon.

Life has its ups & downs for Travis Mayer, a 2002 medalist in the event named for these little hills on the slopes	moguls.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reads from the pole vault at Duke University's track in Durham, NC.)  In bending an elastic solid, stress is the force causing deformation & this is the 6-letter term for the deformation	strain.

"'Do all lawyers defend n-negroes, Atticus?'  'Of course they do, Scout'"	Harper Lee.

This "Urban" store is the parent company of Anthropologie	Urban Outfitters.

From the Greek for "false name", it's a fictitious name used by an author	a pseudonym.

Bucharest, Bonn, Bern	Bonn.

In 2002 Vonetta Flowers & Jill Bakken won gold in the 2-woman version of this high-speed sport	the bobsled.

6 elements once known as inert gases are now known by this aristocratic name	noble gases.

"For never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant, than Friday was to me"	Daniel Defoe.

This bookstore chain is named for its "edgy" founders, brothers Tom & Louis	Borders.

(Jon of the Clue Crew paddles his kayak.)  Kayak is an example of this type of reversible word from the Greek for "running back again"	a palindrome.

Belize City, Guatemala City, Panama City	Belize City.

His "Bode" of work includes 2 Alpine skiing silver medals in 2002	Bode Miller.

(A honey-colored retriever named Max tries to lick Cheryl of the Clue Crew as she pets him at NC State University in Raleigh, NC.)  Veterinarians refer to this area of an animal's body as the posterior or this region, from the Latin for "the tail"	the caudal region.

"'...Why look'st thou so?'--'With my crossbow I shot the albatross'"	Samuel Taylor Coleridge.

The name of this clothing store for teens is French for "airmail"	Aropostale.

It's an outline of the contents of a course or curriculum	a syllabus.

On December 27, 1831 it departed Plymouth, England to map the coastline of South America	the HMS Beagle.

goop.com is a lifestyles website from this Oscar-winning actress; the g & p represent her initials	Gwyneth Paltrow.

On March 19, 2009 he said, "I'm excited and honored to introduce my first guest...

Barack Obama"	Jay Leno.

Baylor, Stephen F.

Austin, Rice	Texas.

Synonym for dignity that's the term for a group of lions	a pride.

If you're a beginner, you might hippity-hop over to this smaller, gentler slope	a bunny hill.

If your mate from Marseilles says he's getting to LAX via "Sud-Ouest", pick him up at this carrier	Southwest.

In 2008 David Gregory became moderator of this NBC Sunday morning news show	Meet the Press.

Time magazine said this 2003 Pixar film was "the ultimate fish-out-of-water story"	Finding Nemo.

Antioch, Bowling Green, Kent State	Ohio.

Like peas, whales & seals are in groups called these	pods.

Something you'd sprinkle on after a shower, it's also the term for soft, dry, freshly fallen snow	powder.

Duck, duck, l'oie; (l'oie of course referring to this other feathered friend)	a goose.

Linus Torvalds is the father of this operating system used on cell phones & supercomputers	Linux.

Of his dialogue, this Han Solo actor said, "You can type this (stuff), George, but you sure can't say it"	Harrison Ford.

DePaul, Wheaton, Northwestern	Illinois.

A crash is a group of these large horned mammals	rhinoceroses.

In California, a premier spot for skiing is this resort area that shares its name with a prehistoric elephant	Mammoth.

"Je ne sais pas" means this, but you still get credit if you phrase it in the form of a question	"I don't know".

The district of conservative rep.

Patrick McHenry in this state includes Mooresville, a home of NASCAR	North Carolina.

Tim Robbins played a public TV newsman in "Anchorman: The Legend of" him	Ron Burgundy.

Wayne State, Kalamazoo College, Madonna University (it's Franciscan Catholic, not Material Girl)	Michigan.

It can be a pack of dogs, or a place to board them	a kennel.

In this type of race you have to zigzag between flags or other obstacles in proper order	a slalom.

When mom tells you to do something "Maintenant!", she means this	now.

Elon Musk is now making rockets & electric cars; before that he co-founded & sold this electronic payment system	PayPal.

We were frakkin' sad when this sci fi show had its series finale on March 20, 2009	Battlestar Galactica.

Grambling, McNeese State, Southern	Louisiana.

A flock of these black birds is called a murder	crows.

Bumps or mounds of snow that accumulate on a slope are called these, like some very wealthy & powerful people	moguls.

"Huitieme" is French for this ordinal number	eighth.

Her home Orchard House was the model for whre the March family lived in her most famous novel	Louisa May Alcott.

"X&Y", "Parachutes"	Coldplay.

This cord that connects a fetus to the placenta contains 2 arteries & 1 vein	the umbillical cord.

Che Guevara probably knew the political-sounding term for the root symbol seen here	radical.

The World Wide Web gets its first page	the 1990s.

This adjective meaning deceptive or sneaky is from the Latin de via, meaning "out of the way"	devious.

During the War Of 1812, this "Rip Van Winkle" author wrote biographies of Naval commanders	Washington Irving.

"American Idiot", "Dookie"	Green Day.

The human body has 3 types of these: skeletal, smooth & cardiac, a combination of skeletal & smooth	muscles.

You should answer this one automatically: It's the property that says a = a	reflexive.

The first controlled nuclear chain reaction	the 1940s.

This New York island's name may come from the Algonquian word for "island"	Manhattan.

Susan & Benjamin Cheever, children of this short story master, are both authors as well	John Cheever.

"Master of Puppets", "Death Magnetic"	Metallica.

The talus fits between the ends of these 2 bones forming the ankle joint	the tibia & fibula.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows an array of numbers enclosed in brackets on the monitor.)  A set of numbers in rows and columns can be used in many ways--for example, to encrypt a code or create 3-D computer graphics; the set shares this name with a 1999 film	a matrix.

Khruschev's "Secret Speech" denounces Stalin	the 1950s.

This compass direction may come from the Proto-Germanic for "to the left of the rising sun"	north.

He stood 5'3" & was the subject of movies that came out in 2005 & 2006	(Truman) Capote.

"In Your Honor", "The Color and the Shape"	Foo Fighters.

Humans have 33 vertebrae, 7 of them cervical, meaning they are in this part of the body	your neck.

The symbol i is used to represent the imaginary square root of this number	-1.

George Orwell, 34 years dead, hits the bestseller list	the 1980s.

From the Latin for "much writing", it's another name for a lie detector test	a polygraph.

He reviewed films & TV for the New Republic before his first book, "Goodbye, Columbus", was published in 1959	Philip Roth.

"Beggars Banquet", "Steel Wheels"	the Rolling Stones.

The pons connects the 2 hemispheres of this part of the brain that regulates balance	the cerebellum.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew shows a geometric diagram on the monitor.)  Half the base times the height gives the area of a triangle; for a cylinder, the area of the base times the height gives this measurement	volume.

Man first reaches the South Pole	the 1910s.

A type of ear implant to help the deaf, it's from the Greek for "snail"	cochlear.

He filed for divorce citing Leviticus 20:21, "If a man shall take his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing"	Henry VIII.

Edward Beale brought news of this 1848 discovery in California to the east coast	gold.

The amount of this in a solution can be measured by a saccharometer	sugar.

Daedalus used this substance to fasten the wings to his back	wax.

This Sunday night series is subtitled "The New Adventures of Superman"	Lois & Clark.

This state's Days of '47 Festival honors the day Brigham Young reached the Salt Lake Valley in 1847	Utah.

A complete donut center	whole hole.

Stephen Long & Zebulon Pike have peaks named for them in this state, an area they said was uninhabitable	Colorado.

The energy from this is measured by a pyrheliometer	the Sun.

Cadmus planted these parts of a dragon to raise some troops	teeth.

"Freddy's Nightmares", a horror anthology that debuted in 1988, was based on this movie series	Nightmare on Elm Street.

Monroe, near Snohomish in this state, is the site of the annual Evergreen State Fair	Washington.

In a restaurant, it's a quartet's table request	for four.

Co-commanders of the 1st U.S.

expedition to explore from Mississippi to the west coast	Lewis & Clark.

An odometer measures the distance covered by a vehicle & this device measures how far you've walked	a pedometer.

The sister of Orestes, mourning became her	Electra.

This crime drama with Robert Wagner & Stefanie Powers was created by Sidney Sheldon	Hart to Hart.

Dog lovers look forward to the Westminster Kennel Club dog show, held each February in this city	New York City.

Contented performing kittens might be paid this way	per purr.

Jedediah Smith was a mountain man & explorer employed in this industry	fur trading.

A spirometer measures the capacity of these organs	the lungs.

Zeus' father, Cronus, was one of this group of 12	Titans.

Character seen here, his action-packed journeys are legendary:	Hercules (Kevin Sorbo).

The Pendleton Roundup, an annual rodeo, takes place in Pendleton in this northwestern state	Oregon.

A squash that's been pierced by a bull's horn	gored gourd.

Senator Thomas Hart Benton's son-in-law was this "Pathfinder"	John C.

Frmont.

A nilometer measures the height of the water in this	the Nile River.

Leda laid 2 eggs:  one with Helen & Pollux in it, the other containing Clytemnestra & him	Castor.

Jack Wagner, formerly of "General Hospital", now plays Dr.

Peter Burns on this Fox drama	Melrose Place.

The Tanglewood Music Festival is a summer highlight in Lenox in this New England state	Massachusetts.

Remained sedate	stayed staid.

This Nazi dictator sometimes dined alone with Blondi, his Alsatian	Adolf Hitler.

This isthmus connects North & South America	Isthmus of Panama.

He painted "Irises" & "Pink Roses" as well as "Sunflowers"	Vincent Van Gogh.

It has over 9,700 tax preparation offices worldwide	H&R Block.

Historians refer to the Golden Age as the time during which Pericles ruled this city	Athens.

On Feb.

12, 1959, the 150th anniversary of Lincoln's birth, he addressed a joint session of Congress	Carl Sandburg.

In 1964 he lifted his beagles Him & Her by the ears on the White House lawn, provoking protest	Lyndon Johnson.

A humid city, Rio de Janeiro lies just north of this tropic line	the Tropic of Capricorn.

This drip artist was born in Cody, Wyoming in 1912	Jackson Pollock.

In 1961 this firm introduced its Selectric typewriter, which used a spherical typing element	IBM.

Under the 1814 Treaty of Kiel, this country gave Norway to Sweden but kept Greenland & other islands	Denmark.

Between 1842 & 1885, he repeatedly revised his "Idylls of the King"	Alfred Lord Tennyson.

Colo was the first of these great apes born in captivity, in 1956 at the Columbus Zoo	Gorilla.

The lowest river in the world, it's revered by Jews, Christians & Muslims alike	The River Jordan.

He spent several summers painting pointillist seascapes including "Le Bec Du Hoc, Grandcamp"	Georges Seurat.

In 1934 he plugged Bulova "Lone Eagle" watches	Charles Lindbergh.

In February 1904 this country attacked the Russian fleet at Port Arthur	Japan.

For much of the winter of 1794-95, he served as acting supervisor for Dumfries, Scotland	Robert Burns.

In 1945 this famous scottie was injured in a fight with Blaze, Elliott Roosevelt's mastiff	Fala.

Discovered by David Livingstone, Botswana's Lake Ngami lies in the northern part of this desert	Kalahari Desert.

His sculpture, "The Age of Bronze", exhibited in 1877, was inspired by Michelangelo	Auguste Rodin.

Only Philip Morris & this Cincinnati-based firm have yearly ad expenditures exceeding $2 billion	Procter & Gamble.

On May 30, 1967 Colonel Ojukwu declared Biafra's independence from this country, starting a civil war	Nigeria.

Her "I Heard a Fly Buzz" may have been based on a chapter in "The House of the Seven Gables"	Emily Dickinson.

This favorite horse of Alexander the Great sometimes wore golden horns in battle	Bucephalus.

In area this country whose capital is now called Yangon is the largest in mainland southeast Asia	Myanmar (Burma).

You can see this British sculptor's "Reclining Mother and Child" at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis	Henry Moore.

In 1811 this German family began its steel-making business by constructing a plant in Essen	Krupp.

In the midst of the Korean War, this South Korean president was elected to his second of 4 terms	Syngman Rhee.

He once wrote, "I choose to be a plain New Hampshire farmer"	Robert Frost.

This 1895 novel is subtitled "An Invention"	The Time Machine.

While making repairs on the Intl.

Space Station, Scott Parazynski lost a needle-nose pair of these	pliers.

September 2010 brought the 45th edition of this comedian's telethon	Jerry Lewis.

Hit this paper mache container, Spanish for "jug", if you want candy and small gifts	pinata.

"In 1997, the House (of Reps.) voted to reprimand him...

It marked the first time the House had reprimanded a Speaker"	Gingrich.

We'll give you $200, not $1,000, for this five letter word meaning stately or majestic	grand.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the RV/MH Hall of Fame in Elkhart, IN.)  The GMC Motorhome from the '60s & 70s was among the first models to have this innovation that helps with traction by putting the weight over the wheels that do the work	front-wheel drive.

In its years of operation, this Soviet space station released more than 200 objects (mostly trash) into space	Mir.

Originally a half hour, this soap started in 1963 & featured Nurse Jessie Brewer	General Hospital.

This word seen on doors is what a right-handed batter does when he hits the ball to left field	pull.

"See Simon, Paul"	(Art) Garfunkel.

Proverbially, you can "break" this food, or "take (it) out of someone's mouth"; earn some dough	bread.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the RV/MH Hall of Fame in Elkhart, IN.)  I'm behind the wheel of the very first motor home, from the company whose name has become a synonym for "motor home"; since 1967, they've sold over 400,000 of them	Winnebago.

Ed White, the first U.S.

spacewalker, lost one of these outside Gemini 4; he must've looked like a later "moonwalker"	a glove.

In 1948 Douglas Edwards became the first anchor of this network's Evening News	CBS.

Aaron Fechter invented this carnival game where you hit a mammal with a mallet	Whack-A-Mole.

"American poet...

became known as a leader of the Beat literary movement of the 1950s"	(Allen) Ginsberg.

The shell of this mollusk is composed chiefly of calcium carbonate	a clam.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from the RV/MH Hall of Fame in Elkhart, IN.)  One of the first times a movie star received a fancy trailer as a perk was in 1931; Paramount gave a Chevy house car to  this sexy star as she left the stage to make movies like "She Done Him Wrong"	Mae West.

Piers Sellers lost a tool in space while spreading putty into this Space Shuttle named for Capt.

Cook's ship	Discovery.

Shown Saturday afternoons on ABC, this sport's tour outdrew college football & moved to ESPN in 1997	the pro bowling tour.

Everlast makes these that come in speed and heavy varieties	punching bags.

"Served under the Apache leaders Cochise and Mangas Coloradas...

in 1894, he was moved to Fort Sill	Geronimo.

You don't get 5 guesses at this winglike appendage to the underwater portion of a hull	a fin.

In 1992 Space Shuttle astronauts delivered ashes of this "Star Trek" creator into the final frontier	Gene Roddenberry.

2010's "When Love Is Not Enough" was the 240th presentation in this series from a greeting card company	Hallmark Hall of Fame.

In some casinos, a blackjack dealer must hit with an ace & a 6, known as this type of 17	soft.

"One of the most original and provocative American architects working today"	(Frank) Gehry.

When speaking of Messrs.

Netanyahu or Britten, it's all about the first name, pluralized	the Benjamins.

Blanche DuBois	A Streetcar Named Desire.

Giving the devil his due, Fr.

Karras invites the devil inside himself, then exits from the second floor in this 1973 movie	The Exorcist.

3.6 million: Down Under	Melbourne.

In 2010 this Illinois governor was tried on corruption charges, but convicted on only 1 count	Blagojevich.

As Franklin D.

Roosevelt's blood pressure was 300/190, he suffered from this 1-word condition	hypertension.

If you're vertical but supported by your palms, you're doing one of these	a handstand.

Emily Webb of Grover's Corners	Our Town.

In this Bruce Willis movie, the villain goes out the window of the Nakatomi building, gun in hand	Die Hard.

11 million: on Luzon Island	Manila.

In 2006 this Illinois governor was busted for racketeering; what's in the water there?	George Ryan.

In 1905 German scientist Alfred Einhorn created this first injectable local anesthetic used in dentistry	novocaine.

A caterpillar that moves by contraction & expansion	an inchworm.

Movie in which Axel Foley asks, "where ...you get off arresting me for being thrown out a window?"	Beverly Hills Cop.

1.1 million: in the heart of the Po River Valley	Milan.

In 2010 it was revealed that Robert Rizzo made $800,000 a year as the city this of Bell, Calif., population 37,000	manager.

Micro-Trach is an oxygen delivery system developed by this physician known for his "maneuver"	(Henry) Heimlich.

A loop found on footwear, it's a symbol of success through one's own efforts	a bootstrap.

18 million: on the Arabian Sea	Mumbai.

In 2010 a House committee charged this veteran Harlem congressman with ethics violations	(Charlie) Rangel.

(Dr.

Oz presents the clue.) By surgically interrupting the electrical impulses that are causing an abnormal rhythm, the maze procedure is designed to threat this type of heart arrhythmia abbreviated "A.F."	atrial fibrillation.

Hard coal that burns with little flame	anthracite.

Barbara Undershaft	Major Barbara.

In this Coen Brothers movie, Charles Durning jumps out a window during a board meeting	The Hudsucker Proxy.

3.2 million: 150 miles from Bogota	Medellin.

Elected to the Senate in 1930, he refused to resign as Louisiana's gov.

until '32, when his handpicked crony got the gig	Huey Long.

The name of this branch of pediatrics that deals with newborn infants literally means "newborn study"	neonatal.

This important mechanism is what you're turning when you wind a clock	the mainspring.

In use from 1844 to 1905, a flag representing the union of these 2 countries was nicknamed the "herring salad"	Norway and Sweden.

While he was in Spain in 1959, he wrote "The Dangerous Summer", a story about rival bullfighters	Hemingway.

Like a door, a Broadway show does these 2 things	open & close.

A valley at 282 feet below sea level in this state is the lowest point in the Western Hemisphere	California.

Like banks, many grocery stores now have these for dispensing cash & taking deposits	ATMs.

He was the voice of Mickey Mouse in "Steamboat Willie"	Walt Disney.

Eastern European capital city of more than 2.2 million	Bucharest.

In 1884 she moved to Red Cloud, Nebraska & later fictionalized it as the town of Hanover in "O Pioneers!"	Willa Cather.

In 2006 it began on July 1 in Strasbourg & ended on July 23 in Paris	the Tour de France.

With 6,640 miles of coast, this state has the longest shoreline	Alaska.

Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from the Catalina Island Conservancy.

Rampant use of this 3-letter insecticide lead to a hefty settlement for restorating the population of Catalina's bald eagles	DDT.

Hi, I'm Harry Shearer.) Among my many "Simpsons" voices are the subservient Smithers & this man who lives next door to Homer--Howdy, neighbor	Ned Flanders.

Any mountain's summit	crest.

Alex reports from the Mark Twain House.) Mark Twain said that this anti-slavery novelist, his next-door neighbor, liked to sneak up behind people and "fetch a war-whoop that would jump that person out of his clothes"	(Harriet Beecher) Stowe.

"From" this to this is an idiom meaning from the start of a meal (or something else) to the end	from soup to nuts.

It pumps more than one million barrels of oil a day, more than any other state	Texas.

"Day to Day" & "All Things Considered" are among the programs going out to its 26 million listeners	NPR.

The voice of Daffy Duck (for the first 50 years)	Mel Blanc.

A braced framework for carrying a railroad over a chasm	a trestle.

Under the name Laura Bancroft, he wrote about Twinkle & Chubbins in Nature Fairyland after taking us to Oz	L.

Frank Baum.

These titles of the 2 paintings represent the beginning & end of Jesus' life	"The Nativity" & "The Crucifixion".

Considered the healthiest state in 2006, it's also home to the Mayo Clinic	Minnesota.

Its headquarters compound in Langley, Virginia is named for Former President George Bush	the CIA.

He voiced Puss In Boots in "Shrek 2"	Antonio Banderas.

Quickly! (to an Italian)	Presto.

William Rose Benet won a Pulitzer for "The Dust Which Is God", & this brother won for "John Brown's Body"	Stephen Vincent Benet.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew indicates the monitor.) A porkchop plot, named for its shape, is used for planning space missions; the vertical & horizontal axes plot possible dates for these 2 flight events	takeoff & landing (or launch & arrival).

Its Boeing manufacturing plant in Everett is the world's largest building by volume	Washington.

A TV cable network, or an explosive for bombs	TNT.

He provided the voices of both Beavis & Butthead	Mike Judge.

The son of Agamemnon, he avenged his father's death by killing his mother Clytemnestra	Orestes.

In 1718 this Texas town was founded by Martin de Alarcon & Father Olivares & named for St.

Anthony of Padua	San Antonio.

1980: "Regular Folks"	Ordinary People.

In 1986 Mexico scored as the first country to host this international sports competition twice	the World Cup.

Going on a cruise? You might pick up this Pfizer product, the "original" or "less drowsy" formula	Dramamine.

The bestselling passenger car of all time is this company's Corolla	Toyota.

A Hawaiian wreath becomes an area sheltered from wind	a lei & a lee.

In defending British soldiers on trial for this 1770 event, John Adams said, "Facts are stubborn things"	the Boston Massacre.

1932: "Magnificent Inn"	Grand Hotel.

This resort city about 200 miles southwest of Mexico City is famous for its cliff divers	Acapulco.

Antabuse is designed to make you feel really, really bad after ingesting this	alcohol.

The transport for a 19th century double date might have been a barouche, one of these	a carriage.

A "landing" area is transformed into a serious throat infection	strep & strip.

In 1685 he joined his father in pastorship of the Old North Church, a post he held until his death	Cotton Mather.

1976: "A Single Colorado Mountain"	Rocky.

Founded in the 1530s, this capital of Jalisco state is the second-largest in Mexico	Guadalajara.

Estramustine is a chemotherapy agent for this glandular cancer in men	prostate cancer.

Cabbies in this Eur.

city spend 2 years gaining "the knowledge", mental maps needed to get a license	London.

"Gentle" becomes "to blend"	mild & meld.

In 1562, in what is now S.C., these French Protestants established a colony named Port Royal	the Huguenots.

1954: "Dockside"	On the Waterfront.

This gritty 1961 Tennessee Williams play unfolds in a seedy Mexican hotel	Night of the Iguana.

Pravastatin aims to block your body's ability to make this	cholesterol.

In "Sixteen Candles", Molly Ringwald says, "I loathe" this method of transport	the bus.

One means "severely tested"; the other, "trapped on a branch"	tried & treed.

In "Of Plymouth Plantation", he wrote that there was so much disease "the living were scarce able to bury the dead"	William Bradford.

1966: "One Bloke Year-Round"	A Man For All Seasons.

This popular resort island lies north of Cozumel off the coast of the state of Quintana Roo	Cancun.

This tranquilizer that sounds like a village was introduced in 1955 & became the USA's bestselling drug	Miltown.

Since 1899 these stalwart animals used in transport have served as the mascots of the Army Corps of Cadets	mules.

"To replenish" becomes "to knock down"	to fill & to fell.

Richard Attenborough, who was in the original 1952 cast of this play, helped celebrate its performance No.

20,000 in 2000	The Mousetrap.

Can you hear me?  This rock opera by The Who was a big hit at the Kennedy Center in 1994	Tommy.

George Custer's men are buried in a cemetery in the national monument named for this river	Little Bighorn.

Trainers shout, "Tail Up!" when they want these performers to follow each other trunk to tail	Elephants.

Radio abbreviation that precedes the name of rap figures Quik, Pooh & Jazzy Jeff	DJ.

On March 2, 1977 he made his first "Tonight Show" appearance; on May 25, 1992 he took over as host	Jay Leno.

Door, Nobel, booby	prizes.

In 1995 Luigi Bonino starred in a ballet about this "Little Tramp" of silent films	Charlie Chaplin.

Scotts Bluff National Monument lies in western Nebraska on this pioneer trail	Oregon Trail.

It's the familiar term for a circus' largest tent, where the main show appears	the big top.

Robin Quivers is the radio consort of this self-proclaimed  "King of All Media"	Howard Stern.

(Hi, I'm Bob Eubanks.)  Tea Leoni ran into this "X-Files" star at the Golden Globes & soon they were newlyweds	David Duchovny.

Inner tubes, doughnuts, the ozone layer	things with holes.

This president's 1972 visit to China inspired an opera that played at the Kennedy Center in 1988	Richard Nixon.

Seminole Indian leader Osceola is buried at this fort where the Civil War began	Fort Sumter.

Pink is the most popular color of this fluffy confection made from spun sugar	cotton candy.

Call letters east of the Mississippi generally start with W; in the west, most start with this	K.

People Magazine called his 1997 solo album "Destination Anywhere", "Tres Bon"	Jon Bon Jovi.

Peeling onions, watching Mel Gibson's film "Forever Young", missing Final Jeopardy!	things that make you cry.

Every December, the Kennedy Center invites the public to a free sing-along of this composer's "Messiah"	G.F.

Handel.

This Wyoming monument contains an 865-foot-high fluted column of igneous rock	Devils Tower.

Antoinette Concello's triple somersault helped make her the "Queen of" this "flying" apparatus	trapeze.

Detroit-born broadcaster who created "American Top 40" & now has his own weekly "Countdown"	Casey Kasem.

In a 1997 issue of "George", he said his cousins Michael & Joseph were "poster boys for bad behavior"	John F.

Kennedy, Jr..

Bobby, bowling,  rolling	pins.

A 1994 festival honoring this country featured the Tjapukai Aboriginal Dance Company	Australia.

Castillo de San Marcos in this Florida city is the oldest masonry fort in the continental U.S.	St.

Augustine.

This steam whistle organ draws crowds to circus parades because it can be heard from miles away: [audio clue]	calliope.

The AAA format, featuring artists like the Cranberries & Tom Petty, stands for adult album this	alternative.

Her 1988 major label debut album was "Y Kant Tori Read"	Tori Amos.

Hollywood, salad, Super	bowls.

The one word quothed by Edgar Allan Poe's raven	"Nevermore!".

You can't make a genuine tempera painting without breaking these	eggs.

On Sept.

5, 1781, 24 of this country's ships engaged British ships in Cheaspeake Bay & turned them back	France.

Chuck Taylor, from whom Converse named a line of these shoes, was a basketball star of the 1910s	high-tops.

It's the go-ahead in a kid's game & for a car at an intersection	a green light.

[video clue]	Oregon State University.

It follows "Poems are made by fools like me..."	"But only God can make a tree".

Surrealists used odd juxtapositions in this form whose name is French for "gluing"	collage.

During the war, this first signer of the Declaration of Independence commanded the Mass.

Militia	John Hancock.

The L.A.

Dodgers & the U.

of Louisville basketball team pioneered this gesture in the late '70s	the high five.

A baker who never uses packaged mixes always "starts from" here	scratch.

[video clue]	the University of Florida.

In preparing to write this poem, Longfellow used "An historical and statistical account of Nova Scotia"	Evangeline.

Edward Steichen led the movement to recognize as art these images, whose name means "drawn with light"	photographs.

In it, Thomas Paine wrote, "The cause of America is in a great measure the cause of all mankind"	Common Sense.

Coastal waters beyond national jurisdiction, or the tops of some sopranos' ranges	High seas/C's.

It's a ship at home in the Arctic, or a remark that starts a conversation	an icebreaker.

[video clue]	the University of Texas.

In a poem titled for the date when Germany invaded Poland, W.H.

Auden called this "A low dishonest decade"	1930s.

17th century Flemish master known for painting women like the one seen here:	Peter Paul Rubens.

The Battle of Long Island was fought in what is now this New York City borough	Brooklyn.

The HD in the new digital format HDTV stands for this	high definition.

It begins a football game or a special event like a political campaign	the kickoff.

Observing pilgrims traveling to the shrine of Thomas Becket inspired him to write his greatest work	Geoffrey Chaucer (The Canterbury Tales).

In 1920 this impressionist, known for his water lilies, painted another plant, "Wisteria"	Claude Monet.

The British ferried 2,200 troops across this river to battle the Americans at Bunker Hill	the Charles River.

Acolytes, a subdeacon & a choir take part in this Catholic service	high mass.

In a business project, it's the level investors try to "get in on"	the ground floor (or the ground level).

Word completing the line "Nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in" this	Jeopardy.

This author's techno-thriller "Rainbow Six" focuses on John Clark, also a hero in "Clear & Present Danger"	Tom Clancy.

Ben Franklin went to London in 1757 to represent this colony's assembly	Pennsylvania.

Name shared by a Sauk chief famous for his war & a U.S.

military helicopter	Black Hawk.

In 1958 this country launched its second 5-year plan, called "The Great Leap Forward"	China.

This Jackson 5 (& later Mariah Carey) hit begins, "You & I must make a pact, we must bring salvation back..."	"I'll Be There".

This Hormel product was once simply known as "spiced ham"	Spam.

This author made a University of Virginia law professor the protagonist of his 2002 novel "The Summons"	(John) Grisham.

This publication that Ben first put out in 1732 often sold 10,000 copies a year	Poor Richard's Almanack.

This "Golden Girl" had her own show in 1958 & 1977 & in 1999 became part of the cast of "Ladies Man"	Betty White.

In 960 Mieczyslaw I became the first ruler of this country	Poland.

Jakob Dylan, the son of Bob Dylan, is the frontman for this group	The Wallflowers.

It's the Spanish-named appetizer of tortilla chips & often beans, beef & onions topped with melted cheese	nachos.

You were born to identify this author of "The Bourne Identity"	(Robert) Ludlum.

In 1783 Franklin asked Congress to recall him from this country; he finally made it home in 1785	France.

People have asked why the whole airplane isn't made out of the same material as this "indestructible" device	the black box.

In 1526 he greeted an Inca nobleman on his ship, but conquest would have to wait a few years until funds were raised	Pizarro.

Eric Clapton charted 3 times with this song: in 1971, 1972 & 1992	"Layla".

Paper-thin & often served for dessert, it's the French equivalent of a pancake	crpes.

"The Numa Files" are paperback spin-offs of this writer's novels featuring Dirk Pitt	Clive Cussler.

Current events of 1751 included the appearance of Ben's scientific work "Experiments and Observations on" this	"Electricity".

John Archibald Wheeler coined this term in the '60s for a collapsed star so dense, no light can escape it	black hole.

In 1998 U.S.

cruise missiles hit this African country in response to bombings of U.S.

embassies	Sudan.

She's the single-named Colombian pop star heard here	Shakira.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew gets ready to eat skewered meat.)  This Asian favorite, sometimes chicken, sometimes beef, is usually served with a spicy peanut sauce	satay.

"The Attorney" Paul Madriani appears in several legal thrillers by this lawyer-turned-author	Steve Martini.

The Hutchinson Letters scandal got Ben fired as deputy this in 1774	postmaster general.

Famous landmark composed of chalk in the county of Kent in England	the White Cliffs of Dover.

This 1904-1905 war began in Manchuria & ended with the battle of Tsushima Strait	Russo-Japanese War.

Quit your yellin' & name this 1995 hit duet for Michael & Janet Jackson, their first together	"Scream".

Traditionally, shepherd's pie contains this meat, ground or diced	lamb.

About 80,000 Scots still speak the Scottish version of this ancient Celtic language	Gaelic.

In 1960 this Democrat spoke first in the first televised U.S.

presidential election debate	John F.

Kennedy.

So as not to confuse it with the mammal, this fish is commonly referred to as mahi-mahi	a dolphinfish.

Running for 5 years, it starred William Shatner as a hard-nosed veteran police officer	T.J.

Hooker.

In the presence of the Adi Granth, the sacred book of the Sikhs, you cover your head & remove these	your shoes.

Bizet's "Carmen", for example	an opera.

Ben More, Ben Alder & Ben Macdui are not people but tall ones of these in Scotland	mountains.

Likely containing a sandwich, the first of these depicting a TV character came along in 1950 with Hopalong Cassidy	a lunchbox.

The black type of this fish with a woman's name is a striking addition to any aquarium	a molly.

Reminiscent of "Highway to Heaven", this popular series stars Roma Downey & Della Reese	Touched by an Angel.

Sukkot, a Jewish festival, began as a harvest celebration & was a model for this centuries-old American holiday	Thanksgiving.

Phrase that precedes "dope" in Ali's famed boxing strategy	"rope-a".

Defeated at Dunsinane by Malcolm in 1054, he wasn't dethroned until killed by Malcolm in 1057	Macbeth.

The John Birch Society coined the term comsymp, short for this	Communist sympathizer.

Less than half an inch long, this tiniest fish is found in the Indian Ocean, not in an Asian desert	a goby.

This offbeat series on E! provides a daily recap of funny chat show highlights	Talk Soup.

As they were partial to using hymns, these brothers, Charles & John, were the first rhythm Methodists	the Wesleys.

In an Irish battle cry, these 2 words follow "Erin"	"Go Bragh".

The Church of Scotland, the country's national church, is a branch of this Christian denomination	Presbyterian.

In a heartbreaking scene, Travis has to kill his beloved dog in this 1957 film based on a Fred Gipson book	Old Yeller.

Until one was caught in 1938, it was thought that this fish had been extinct for more than 70 million years	the coelacanth.

He's the large & goofy title TV superhero seen here   "Probably that one.

The balcony..."	The Tick.

Meaning "sign of God", it's the title of a Shi'ite Muslim scholar & leader	Ayatollah.

(Jeff Probst reports from the Marquesas.)  One of Nuku Hiva's main exports is this--dried coconut meat	copra.

Hundreds of years old, the de facto national flag features this saint's cross	Andrew.

In 1967 this 21-year-old started Rolling Stone magazine	Jann Wenner.

It springs to mind that there's a Florida city named for this game fish seen here	tarpon.

Co-hosted by John Davidson, it was ABC's response to NBC's "Real People"	That's Incredible!.

Made up of 1,028 hymns in 10 books, it's the oldest of the Vedas in Hinduism	Rigveda.

In 2001 this author of "The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success" published "The  Deeper Wound"	(Deepak) Chopra.

This common term originated in the early 1500s with the book "De Rebus Oceanicis et Novo Orbe"	the New World.

"Body Heat"	Kathleen Turner.

Marsh's Library in this country was founded c.

1702 by the Archbishop of Dublin	Ireland.

In 1991 this telephone company launched its Friends & Family promotion	MCI.

This leader of the Green Mountain Boys did not live to see Vermont become a state	Ethan Allen.

It looks like a sweet potato, but it isn't even a distant relative	a yam.

You could say this comedy "ends well" -- Helena finally wins the love of her husband Bertram	All's Well That Ends Well.

"To Have and Have Not"	(Lauren) Bacall.

Architect Gordon Bunshaft designed this presidential library in Austin, Texas	the LBJ library.

As of July 1, 1968 you could dial this 3-digit number in New York City & get the police	911.

This founding prophet of Mormonism was born in Sharon, Vermont in 1805	Joseph Smith.

It's a kind of striped mussel as well as a striped equine	a zebra.

Though this comedy has Verona in its title, it ends in a forest on the frontiers of Mantua	The Two Gentlemen of Verona.

"The Outlaw"	Jane Russell.

Sterling Memorial Library in New Haven, Connecticut houses the archives of this university	Yale.

On Oct.

30, 1938 phone traffic peaked in cities all over America as people discussed this broadcast	the "War of the Worlds".

This plow inventor was a Vermont blacksmith before moving to Grand Detour, Illinois	John Deere.

Despite its bulk, this wild ox found in Tibet is an excellent swimmer	a yak.

Near the end of "Henry VIII", this princess is described as "a most unspotted lily", who will die a virgin	Elizabeth I.

"Oklahoma!"	Shirley Jones.

Salinas, California, has a public library named for this novelist	Steinbeck.

In 1980 Dial-It National Sports became the first service on this new area code	1-900.

George Franklin Edmunds wrote most of this antitrust act of 1890	the Sherman (Antitrust Act).

Some of these are produced by bremsstrahlung, from the German for "breaking radiation"	x-rays.

Puck's last speech in this play begins, "If we shadows have offended, think but this--and all is mended"	A Midsummer Night's Dream.

"Halloween"	Jamie Lee Curtis.

In 1602 this university's library reopened after restoration work by Sir Thomas Bodley	Oxford University.

In 1880 he invented the photophone, a device that sent messages through the air on beams of light	Alexander Graham Bell.

At age 15 this future New York Tribune editor was apprenticed to a printer in East Poultney	Horace Greeley.

This Saint Francis was the "Apostle of the Indies"	Xavier.

In the last scene of this comedy, Petruchio wins a bet that he has the most obedient wife	The Taming of the Shrew.

In 1751, with Benjamin Franklin's help, the 1st hospital in the U.S.

was founded in this city	Philadelphia.

Of the 31 pilgrims in this Chaucer work, only 23 tell their stories	The Canterbury Tales.

Large aboriginal populations live in this country's states of Queensland & New South Wales	Australia.

The juice of one of these citrus fruits makes a Whiskey Sour sour	a lemon.

In 1936, in defiance of the Treaty of Versailles, this country began remilitarizing the Rhineland	Germany.

He recorded "Gone At Last" with Phoebe Snow, not Art Garfunkel	Paul Simon.

In 1867 Thomas Allbutt invented one of these instruments which took 5 minutes to register instead of 20	a thermometer.

This Longfellow poem was suggested by a smithy under a chestnut tree in Cambridge, Massachusetts	"The Village Blacksmith".

Administrative units in this country include Giza, Aswan & Suez	Egypt.

This pomegranate syrup turns a Pink Lady pink	grenadine.

This longtime anchor of the CBS Evening News became a UPI correspondent in 1939	Walter Cronkite.

She sang "Better Be Good To Me" in 1984, a few years after she broke up with Ike	Tina Turner.

Dutch physician Willem Kolff developed the 1st of these kidney machines that cleanse the blood	a dialysis machine.

Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote of this ship, "Oh better that her shattered hulk should sink beneath the wave"	"Old Ironsides".

This longest river on the Iberian Peninsula is also known as the Tajo	the Tagus.

A teaspoon of creme de cassis is added to this to make a Kir	white wine.

Helen Keller brought the first of these Japanese dogs to the United States in 1937	the akita.

In "Take Me Home, Country Roads", John Denver sang, "Almost heaven," this state	West Virginia.

In 1906 August von Wassermann developed a well-known test for this sexually transmitted disease	syphilis.

His "When the Frost is on the Punkin" was written for a series in the Indianapolis Journal	(James Whitcomb) Riley.

Cabinda, an area of this former Portuguese colony, is separated from the rest of it by Zaire	Angola.

A basic Gin Rickey is gin, lime & this non-potent potable	soda water.

He was appointed conductor of the Boston Pops in 1930	Arthur Fiedler.

Alan, Merrill & Wayne, 3 of these Utah brothers, co-wrote their own 1972 hit "Crazy Horses"	the Osmonds.

In 1982 William DeVries performed the 1st permanent artificial heart transplant on this man	Barney Clark.

He was descended from an Abyssinian prince, Peter the Great's godson	(Aleksandr) Pushkin.

The Indus River provides the western border of this desert also known as the Great Indian Desert	the Thar Desert.

Using Scotch whisky turns a Manhattan into this drink	a Rob Roy.

This author of "Anne of Green Gables" was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1935	(Lucy Maud) Montgomery.

This singer's 1970 hit "I'll Never Fall In Love Again" was from the Broadway musical "Promises, Promises"	Dionne Warwick.

On May 29, 1765 Patrick Henry's Stamp Act protest was interrupted with this one word	Treason!.

A narrow passage separates Canada's Ellesmere Island from this large Danish island	Greenland.

This Yankee was the "greatest drawing card in history of baseball"	Babe Ruth.

Woo hoo! In 2009 this animated family was chosen to grace stamps, though postage did go up to 44 cents (D'oh!)	the Simpsons.

In Genesis 4 he becomes the first killer; God isn't happy	Cain.

Meet me in the library for a liaison at your liesure	leisure.

The first 10 of these are known as the Bill of Rights	the Amendments.

Mount Logan, Canada's highest peak, is found in this territory	the Yukon Territory.

"Detroit - Philadelphia, A.L.

- 1905-1926...

retired with 4191 major league hits"	(Ty) Cobb.

This astronomer for whom a space telescope is named is honored in the American Scientists series	(Edwin) Hubble.

In one of the few documented one-on-one Old West gunfights, this "Wild" man killed Davis Tutt in 1865	Wild Bill Hickok.

The occasional misspelling is noticable on a telecast like "Jeopardy!"	noticeable.

In Israel Tevet is the tenth of these	month.

Of the top 5 Canadian cities in population, it's the one closest to the Pacific Ocean	Vancouver.

"'Mr.

Octobe	(Reggie) Jackson.

A stamp honors this 19th c.

author about whom it was said, "So this is the little lady who made this big war"	Harriet Beecher Stowe.

Bodyguards Satwant & Beant Singh killed this female leader of India in 1984	Indira Gandhi.

If you supersede the competition, you will excede all expectations	exceed.

In L.A., the western tip of Interstate 10 is called this "freeway", after the beach community it passes through	Santa Monica.

Appropriately, New Glasgow is in this Canadian province	Nova Scotia.

This 2009 inductee was "faster than a speeding bullet"	Rickey Henderson.

An international rate stamp has a photo of this nearly 700-sq mile swamp in Georgia and Florida	the Okefenokee.

This "insect" of a gangster was a real-life hit man for Murder Incorporated in the 1930s & '40s	Bugsy Siegel.

We want you to be committed to catagorizing your collectibles cohesively	categorizing.

The title of this Boccaccio work means "10 Days"	Decameron.

This province has the longest border, including water, with the United States	Ontario.

"Boston Red Sox A.L.

1939-1960...

batted .406 in 1941"	Ted Williams.

The Distinguished Marines series honors the man for whom a North Carolina Marine Corps base was named	Lt.

Gen.

John Lejeune.

Pausanius, a young Macedonian noble, killed this man, Alexander's dad, in 336 B.C.	Philip.

The accomodations at the monastery were rudimentary at best	accommodations.

(Alex stands in front of an exhibit at the Newseum.) The exhibit G-men and journalists contains the very first ledger in which this list was kept.

It began when a reporter asked the FBI, "Who are the toughest guys you're looking for?"	the FBI's 10 most wanted list.

In 1869 this Austrian monk published a paper on hawkweed: the experiments didn't work as well as the ones with peas	Mendel.

It's appropriate that the name of this double reed instrument with a low range comes from the Italian for "low"	a bassoon.

This word meaning "empty" or "to be filled in" describes a vacant type of stare	blank.

"The Fire Sermon" is Part III of this poet's "The Waste Land"	T.S.

Eliot.

"Sex and the City", "Sex and the City" (& "Did you Hear About the Morgans?")	Sarah Jessica Parker.

Relatively speaking, it's your mom's husband by a later marriage	a stepfather.

Unusual names borne by these celestial objects include 3834 Zappafrank & 10221 Kubrick	asteroids.

Your dog will scratch his head if you don't know the ukulele's name comes from the Hawaiian for this "jumping" insect	the flea.

It's a self-satisfied smile or grin that you may be asked to wipe off your face	smirk.

The burning of Moscow after Napoleon's exit is dramatized in this Tolstoy novel	War and Peace.

"Bosom Buddies", "The Green Mile"	Tom Hanks.

From the late Latin for "word", this book is the last word on words	dictionary.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew holds a bicycle wheel)  When I torque a spinning bike wheel, an equal and opposite torque causes me to rotate also, an illustration of the conservation of angular this	momentum.

The first 4 letters of xylophone refer etymologically to this material used to make its sounding bars	wood.

In the 1600s Charles Le Brun drew illlustrations for each of the passions.

Here's la haine, this opposite of love	hate.

In Book 1 of this, Satan is "hurld hedlong flaming from th' ethereal skies...

to dwell in adamantine chains and penal fire"	Paradise Lost.

"Friends", "Bruce Almighty"	Jennifer Aniston.

Don't lose your head: this French device shares its name with an instrument for surgically removing tonsils	guillotine.

This 4-letter neutral compound is produced by the reaction of an acid & a base	a salt.

From the Latin for "clear" comes the name for this woodwind instrument	clarinet.

Jack Nicholson movie villain known for his rictus	the Joker.

This Irish poet's "Sailing to Byzantium" urges "sages...

in God's holy fire" to be "singing masters of my soul"	William Butler Yeats.

"In Living Color", "Bruce Almighty"	Jim Carrey.

The report's back from the lab; it's the science dealing with the detection of poisons	toxicology.

Plants having these underground stems, from the Greek for "root", include irises, bamboo & wild ginger	rhizomes.

The name of this instrument has nothing to do with the religion, but is more likely a corruption of the word "jaw"	Jew's harp.

This word for a sidelong glance of crude desire used to mean "the cheek"	a leer.

His 1963 bestseller "The Fire Next Time" took its title from an old spiritual	James Baldwin.

"The Office", "Bruce Almighty"	Steve Carell.

Something that's the first son's due; Esau sold his	birthright.

Owain Glyndwr, who died circa 1416, was the last native of his country to claim this title	Prince of Wales.

Libya's arid climate is made worse by the ghibli, a crop-destroying wind from this desert	Sahara.

He's an African explorer, "I presume"	Dr.

Livingstone.

A score of 22-22, for instance	tie.

A Norman could say, "I'm the king of the motte-and-bailey style of" this	castle.

You'll find this date on a calendar only once every 4 years	February 29 (for a leap year).

It's a trip taken by a public official at public expense, ostensibly for official business	junket.

In addition to helping commerce, these ocean winds bring pleasant weather to islands like Hawaii	trade winds.

Bob Dylan appears as does this poet from whom he may have taken his stage name	Dylan Thomas.

To lose footing on icy ground	slip.

As he often said, Chris Farley's character Matt Foley lived in one of these down by the river	van.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew at the USS Arizona Memorial in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii)  Pearl Harbor will always be remembered for this date in 1941, which FDR said "will live in infamy"	7-Dec.

It's not a type of fruit spread, but a large extended campout for several Boy Scout troops together	jamboree.

In Venezuela, this "season" is from April to October; in the mountains of Peru, from November to March	rainy season.

This actor is in costume from his film "The Wild One"	Marlon Brando.

Breathes heavily, like a dog or a tired jogger	pants.

The introduction to "The Song of Hiawatha" mentions "the curling smoke of" these dwellings	wigwams.

Oregon entered the union on this date in 1859, sweetie	14-Feb.

It's believed that the Virgin Mary died in this Middle Eastern city	Jerusalem.

It's the U.S.

state that experiences the most tornadoes	Texas.

The Beatles' bass player before Paul took over	Stu Sutcliffe.

A layer of paint	coat.

A book subtitled "Architecture in the Colombian Countryside" showcases the estates called these in Spanish	haciendas.

It's Bird Day in Oklahoma, & a popular date for pole dancing	1-May.

This 1847 novel takes place mainly at Lowood Orphan Asylum & Thornfield Hall	"Jane Eyre".

The Australian mountains that include the Charlotte's Pass ski area, or the weather there in July	Snowy.

This "Das Kapital" author stands between comedian Oliver Hardy & H.G.

Wells	Karl Marx.

Hits hard	socks/belts.

A western camper pitches a tent; a central Asian nomad pitches this	yurt.

O Canada celebrates Canada Day on this date, 3 days before a big American holiday	1-Jul.

The Hagia Sophia in Istanbul was one of the many churches built by this 6th century Byzantine emperor	Justinian I.

Critic Walter Kerr called this man's "Camino Real" "The worst play yet written by the best playwright of his generation"	Tennessee Williams.

Japan had an emperor, Russia, a czar & Italy was ruled by one of these	king.

She was called "Little Missy" & "Little Sure Shot"	Annie Oakley.

Examples of this TV format include "Leave It to Beaver" & "The King of Queens"	sitcom.

It's not the capital, but this Vietnamese city is the most populous	Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon).

Liza & Lorna's mom	Judy Garland.

"May All Your Fences Have Gates" is a book of "Essays on the Drama of" this African-American playwright	August Wilson.

Of "Frankenstein", "The Invisible Man" or "Dracula", the one not created in 1897	"Frankenstein" (created in 1818).

The "Plant Magician" was Luther Burbank; this man was the "Plant Doctor"	George Washington Carver.

Slang term for a left-handed boxer or fiddle player	southpaw.

Of the 3 countries that border Vietnam, the one whose name does not begin with the same letter as the other 2	Laos.

This animated girl attends Orbit High School	Judy Jetson.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew at the Nederlander Theatre in New York City)  This creator of "Rent" died the night of its final dress rehearsal, never knowing he would win the Pulitzer Prize	Jonathan Larson.

Relationship of Lizzie Borden to the woman she was acquitted of killing	stepdaughter.

Born in 1905, he was the "Billionaire Recluse"	Howard Hughes.

It's a low-level football "catch" made near the ground by a running player	shoestring catch.

A fertile marshland, Vietnam's southernmost region is the broad delta of this river	Mekong.

Twice nominated for Oscars, this actress once studied at an Australian convent & sang in a rock band	Judy Davis.

These British twin brother playwrights wrote mystery novels under the rather obvious alias Peter Anthony	Peter & Anthony Shaffer.

Sam Rayburn was "Mr.

Sam", not "Mr.

Democrat"; this politician was "Mr.

Republican", not "Mr.

Robert"	Robert Taft.

(I'm NFL running back Shaun Alexander)  I play in this city that's the farthest distance away from any other NFL city	Seattle.

The large "S" shape that is Vietnam juts out into this sea with a directional name	South China Sea.

She played an airheaded blonde to whom William Holden had to teach manners in "Born Yesterday"	Judy Holliday.

Born in 1799, this poet, novelist & playwright is to Russian literature what Shakespeare is to English literature	Alexander Pushkin.

Gloria Vanderbilt or Doris Duke; it's also the translation of the Victoria Ruffo telenovela title "Pobre Nina Rica"	Poor Little Rich Girl.

Peter Falk narrated this 1978 documentary in which hardened convicts frightened delinquent kids	Scared Straight.

Vietnam's narrowest point, about 30 miles, is just north of this port city where U.S.

troops landed in 1965	Da Nang.

This CNN news anchor once worked as a correspondent for "The MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour"	Judy Woodruff.

Bill Harmsen, who raised horses in Colo., happily founded this candy co.

in 1949 to make money during the winter	Jolly Rancher.

Because of his Hanoverian heritage, American colonists called this monarch "German Georgie" or "Geordie"	George III.

Built on 200 acres, this Washington, D.C.

train station was once the world's largest	Union Station.

2 reporters unearth a political scandal that goes all the way to the top in this 1976 film based on a book	All the President's Men.

On Jan.

31, 1999 this team repeated as Super Bowl champs with John Elway throwing for 336 yards	the Denver Broncos.

Do the wild fais-do-do in this state while motoring on Interstate 10 to Baton Rouge or Ponchatoula	Louisiana.

Among the more colorful nicknames of this agricultural chemist were "Peanut Man" & "Sweet-Potato Man"	George Washington Carver.

The 120-foot big bat being transported here is now at the Kentucky museum named for this 2-word brand	Louisville Slugger.

Jimmy Stewart played Jefferson Smith, the naive & idealistic appointee to the U.S.

Senate in this Capra classic	Mr.

Smith Goes to Washington.

On January 4, 1995 he was sworn in as the first Republican speaker of the house in more than 40 years	Newt Gingrich.

It's the only U.S.

state named for a French king	Louisiana.

This animal phrase meaning "courageous" was Richard I of England's nickname	the Lionhearted.

In 1956 a 12,000-square-mile one of these was seen floating off Antarctica; you might call it titanic	an iceberg.

This political satire starred John Travolta as a Southern governor running for president	Primary Colors.

On Nov.

5, 1996, this GOP candidate joked, "Tomorrow will be the first time in my life I don't have anything to do"	Bob Dole.

He was the "Father of Texas", but the Indians called him "Big Drunk"	Sam Houston.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew)  In 1996 a 505 X 255-foot flag decorated this structure seen here in the West	the Hoover Dam.

Frank Langella is the power hungry chief of staff in this film in which Kevin Kline plays a presidential impersonator	Dave.

In April 1992 riots broke out in L.A.

after a jury failed to convict the policemen involved in the beating of this man	Rodney King.

This 19th century American politician & orator was nicknamed "The Little Giant"	Stephen Douglas.

Lady Hamilton could tell you the name of this 185-foot column that went up in the early 1840s	(Lord) Nelson's Column.

Michael Douglas played Andrew Shepherd, the title character of this film, & even he had trouble dating	The American President.

Queen Elizabeth II & Francois Mitterrand appeared together at the opening of this on May 6, 1994	the opening of the "Chunnel" (the Channel tunnel).

Scotch, & make it this (6)	double.

This man from Mass.

is the ranking Democrat of the Senate's Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee	Edward Kennedy.

CBS, Blockbuster, Simon & Schuster	Viacom.

This fluffy skirt that you may have to wear was not named for archbishop Desmond	tutu.

In this largest country, comrades left & right enjoy coulibiac, a pie made with the spinal marrow of the sturgeon	Russia.

Some think this Irving Berlin song should replace "The Star-Spangled Banner" as the national anthem -- it's easier to sing	"God Bless America".

He's the shadowy Watergate source (4,6)	"Deep Throat".

This self-made man has the distinction of being the longest serving senator ever from West Virginia	Robert Byrd.

Aiwa, Epic Records, Columbia Tristar	Sony.

Your allergy to feathers may prevent you from playing Odette, the queen of the swans in this ballet	Swan Lake.

The Masai people of this African country mix cow blood with milk for a refreshing drink	Kenya.

Politicians often complain about having to make appearances on this "unappetizing poultry" circuit	the "rubber chicken" circuit.

This Ariz.

senator said of Bush's energy plan, "Just one pork barrel project larded onto another"	John McCain.

D.C.

Comics, MapQuest.com, CNN	Time Warner.

To star in this 1890 fairy tale ballet, you shouldn't have spindly legs but you will need a spindle	Sleeping Beauty.

Sanma aisu is fish-flavored ice cream & taco aisu is octopus-flavored ice cream made in this country	Japan.

There are Blue & White branches of this African river	the Nile.

This Tennessee senator is a practicing physician	Bill Frist.

First Colony Life Insurance, Telemundo, NBC	General Electric.

Your striking resemblance to Kirk Douglas has convinced us to star you in the ballet about this gladiator	Spartacus.

When on this north Atlantic island be sure to try hakarl, a traditional dish of rotten shark	Iceland.

VP Garret Hobart cast the deciding vote against independence for these formerly Spanish Pacific islands	the Philippines.

This Vermont senator wrote, "You get 15 Democrats together in a room, and you get 20 opinions"	Patrick Leahy.

Hyperion Books, Mammoth Records, Miramax Films	Disney.

Your "Romeo and Juliet" will make everyone forget the 1965 triumph of Rudolf Nureyev & this partner	Margot Fonteyn.

Consisting of a sheep's minced heart, lung & liver, haggis is a specialty of this U.K.

country	Scotland.

The website for this Bureau of the Treasury department is www.moneyfactory.com	the Bureau of Printing and Engraving.

If a president is impeached, this official presides over the trial in the Senate	the Chief Justice of the United States.

The Qattara Depression, one of Africa's lowest points, lies 300 miles southwest of this country's pyramids	Egypt.

A folded tortilla filled with various ingredients	Taco.

Cheap way off a rodeo bronco	Buck.

The Mackinac Bridge joins the upper & lower peninsulas of this U.S.

state	Michigan.

These events occur because gas-filled magma is forced to the surface by pressure from solid rock	Volcanic eruptions.

Ted Cassidy played Bigfoot on "The Six Million Dollar Man" & filled this servant's shoes on "The Addams Family"	Lurch.

Arabs call this Libyan capital Tarabulus	Tripoli.

This "steak" is a hot dog	Tube steak.

No "Wonder" you're on a "roll" -- you're not a "loaf"er & you're earning a lot of this	Bread/dough.

This state was named for a man who was a European king from 1643 to 1715	Louisiana.

They're "unlucky" because in the Middle Ages they were thought to be the mascots of witches	Black cats.

He must have a great benefit plan; Alfred began his service to this crime fighter way back in 1943	Batman.

Most of Africa's major rivers, including the Congo & the Niger, flow into this ocean	Atlantic.

This root vegetable often has white skin & a purple-tinged top	Turnip.

If you have the itch to start a business "from" it, you'll certainly need some of it	Scratch.

There are more farms in this large southwestern state than in any other	Texas.

According to Genesis 3:14, because it tricked Eve	Why does the snake crawl on the ground?.

Robert Guillaume cleaned up on "Soap" before moving to the governor's mansion on this series	Benson.

In addition to its bountiful wildlife, this desert is the site of the Orapa diamond mine, one of the world's largest	Kalahari.

It's a cross between a pomelo & a tangerine	Tangelo.

Bank notes that sing before fa-so-la	Do-re-mi.

This town bearing the name of an old TV game show is the seat of Sierra County, New Mexico	Truth or Consequences (Hot Springs).

To punish Vronsky for turning cold to her, & to escape from everything	Why does Anna Karenina kill herself?.

Daniel Davis played Niles the butler on this "Fine" TV comedy that featured the Sheffield family	The Nanny.

Jebel Musa, a promontory in this mountain range, is one of the Pillars of Hercules	Atlas Mountains.

A yellow cheddar from Oregon	Tillamook.

2-word phrase for Henny Penny's lunch	Chicken feed.

On June 17, 1969 this controversial erotic revue opened off-Broadway; oh my!	Oh! Calcutta!.

Because bacteria from carbon dioxide bubbles around which the curd hardens	Why does Swiss cheese have holes?.

Giles was the first name of this Sebastian Cabot character on "Family Affair"	Mr.

French.

In the East Indies certain species of this reptile are called flying dragons because they can glide from tree to tree	Lizards.

As an 8-year-old in 1956, she sang with a group welcoming Queen Elizabeth II; later she sang to open the 2000 games	Olivia Newton-John.

In 1845 he published "The Raven and Other Poems"; the other poems include "The Conqueror Worm"	Edgar Allan Poe.

Henry VIII	Tudor.

Type of quotations in the title of "Bartlett's"	Familiar.

Film character who said, "You should be kissed, and often, and by someone who knows how"	Rhett Butler.

Newton, Cassegrain, Schmidt & Maksutov all have types of this instrument named for them	Telescope.

Teams were pulling out left & right, some in protest of the Soviet invasion of this country	Hungary.

In 1977 a reconstruction of her "Little House" was put on the original site 13 miles southwest of Independence	Laura Ingalls Wilder.

George VI	Windsor.

A quote can be taken "out of" this, from the Latin for "to weave together"	Context.

A former Dodger outfielder & TV's "Grace Under Fire" both go by this name	Brett Butler.

The flexible neck of this bird of prey allows it to rotate its head an amazing 270 degrees	Owl.

Like Korea in 2000, this country entered the stadium in 1956 as a "United" team	Germany.

19th century minister of the Second Church of Boston, known for essays like "Self-Reliance"	Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Richard I	Plantagenet.

Kim Walker's character in "Say Anything" has this annoying habit when quoting	Making quotations with your fingers.

This Irish poet who penned "The Winding Stair" shares his middle name with his brother Jack & father John	William Butler Yeats.

Change 1 letter in "protest" to get this word for a protozoan & others in its kingdom	Protist.

Her 2000 novel "Blonde" is, of course, about Marilyn Monroe	Joyce Carol Oates.

James I	Stuart.

3-word phrase for a quote meant for attribution, or a quote like "Gretzky's 92 goals are unbeatable!"	On the record.

In his 1872 novel "Erewhon", poverty is considered a crime	Samuel Butler.

Sir Humphry Davy named this yellowish-green gas from a Greek word meaning "greenish-yellow"	Chlorine.

"Before I Say Good-Bye" is her 22nd romantic thriller, so it's no mystery -- she's good	Mary Higgins Clark.

George III	Hanover.

Publishing term for the type of quote seen here: [Trebek's...made it into record books as host of television's #1-rated quiz show.]	Pull quote.

The mission statement of this school says it's located "In...Indianapolis, one of America's most livable cities"	Butler University.

The 1996 musical "Play On!" gets its title from the first line of this Shakespeare play, on which it is based	\"Twelfth Night\".

A minister, 1968: "I've seen the promised land...and I'm happy tonight...I'm not fearing any man"	Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr..

"Soul Train" premiered in this decade	1970s.

"Marching On", "By Antietam Creek"	Civil War.

Descriptive term for the flag of Italy & the flag of France	Tricolor.

The most common cause of hay fever in the U.S.

is this substance from ragweed	Pollen.

In "Peanuts", Snoopy often fancied himself a flying ace out to get this pilot	The Red Baron.

A Communist, 1938: "Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun"	Mao Tse-tung.

Oh yessssssss...he created the show & was the original producer & host	Don Cornelius.

"Body Count", "Coming Home"	Vietnam War.

From 1963 to 1978 he was Archbishop of Krakow	Karol Wojtyla (Pope John Paul II).

This common weed seen here has a beverage in its name	Milkweed.

Excessive bureaucratic procedure resulting in inaction or delay	Red tape.

A physicist, 1955: "If only I had known, I would have become a watchmaker"	Albert Einstein.

White crossover artists featured on "Soul Train" have included David Bowie & this "Island Girl" singer	Elton John.

"The Good Soldier Schweik", "Paths of Glory"	World War I.

Geographic region within the Arctic Circle named for the people who call themselves the Sami	Lapland.

This plant whose alkaloids ended Socrates' life now grows on American roadsides	Hemlock.

Stephen Crane wrote, "He wished that he, too, had a wound," this	A red badge of courage.

A governor, 1963: "Segregation now!  Segregation tomorrow!  Segregation forever!"	George Wallace.

This hair care product was among the first major backers of the show	Afro Sheen.

"A Walk in the Sun", "They Were Expendable"	World War II.

It's the smallest in area of the Benelux countries	Luxembourg.

This fabric follows Queen Anne's in the name of the weed seen here	Lace.

In song, just "remember" this place "and the cowboy that loves you so true"	Red River Valley.

A professor, 1967: "Turn on, tune in, drop out"	Timothy Leary.

To gain better production values, "Soul Train" was moved from this city to Los Angeles	Chicago.

"Arundel", "Johnny Tremain"	The Revolutionary War.

The fertile plain east of the Danube, making up half this country's area, is called the Great Alfold	Hungary.

In the names of weeds, this old word for a plant follows soap- & St.

John's	Wort.

The title of a 1928 song Sophie Tucker introduced, it was also her nickname	"The Last of the Red Hot Mamas".

This show which had a 9-year-run on ABC was produced with help from J.

Edgar Hoover	The F.B.I..

The emblem of St.

Lawrence, it's also a nickname for a football field	Gridiron.

Elected to the Hall of Fame in 1966, his lifetime batting average was .344	Ted Williams.

This state's largest lake may be 20 times as salty as any ocean	Utah (Great Salt Lake).

Oscar & Felix were an "odd" one	Couple.

This '60s police drama with Jack Warden was missing the "blue" of the series that began in 1993	N.Y.P.D..

The first American citizen canonized was an immigrant from this country	Italy (Mother Cabrini).

This crooner's hits include 1971's "Where Do I Begin" & 1959's "Lonely Street"	Andy Williams.

Francis Scott Key wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner" while in this state during the War of 1812	Maryland.

Ichabod's patronymic	Crane.

Max Planck gave this name to the smallest amount of energy that can be emitted as electromagnetic radiation	Quantum.

[Hi, I'm Pat O'Brien]  David E.

Kelley won 2 Emmys for this show in 1991, one as executive producer, one as writer	L.A.

Law.

Saint Brigid was buried at Kildare, but was later moved to be buried with this saint	Saint Patrick.

"The Hillbilly Shakespeare" is one nickname of this legendary singer	Hank Williams, Sr..

Ice cream cones were reportedly first served at the 1904 World's Fair in this state	Missouri (St.

Louis).

The means of production are privately owned in this economic system	Capitalism.

To scientists, it's force times distance; to Twain, it's "whatever a body is obliged to do"	Work.

This '70s series about a harsh Navy drill instructor with a soft heart starred Don Rickles	C.P.O.

Sharkey.

Philip of Moscow foresaw that his post as primate of the Russian church might lead to martyrdom, as this man was czar	Ivan the Terrible.

The aquatic Mrs.

Fernando Lamas	Esther Williams.

In 1886 a pharmacist in this southern state became the first man to enjoy a Coke and a smile	Georgia.

Stoichiometry is defined as the study of the quantities involved in these chemical events	Chemical reactions.

Organization that employed Alexander Waverly, Mark Slate & Illya Kuryakin	U.N.C.L.E.

(United Network Command for Law and Enforcement).

In September 1999 an abridged version of his "City of God" ranked 9,821st on Amazon.com's sales list	Saint Augustine.

This devoted mom has been called the most famous Miss America of all time	Vanessa Williams.

From 1784 to 1788 the eastern part of this state was a separate state called Franklin	Tennessee.

In 41 A.D.

Cassius Chaerea & company assassinated this Roman emperor	Caligula.

This 1951 classic stars the AFI's top picks for the greatest male & female film legends	The African Queen (Humphrey Bogart & Katharine Hepburn).

Fittingly, the book of Numbers begins with God telling this man to count the number of Israelites	Moses.

These 2 countries nicknamed the Bear & the Dragon conducted a "verbal war"	Soviet Union & China.

In 1994 at age 18, he became the youngest golfer to win the U.S.

Amateur Golf Tournament	Tiger Woods.

Mother Goose rhyming line that follows "Rub-a-dub-dub"	Three men in a tub.

In suds: Eberhard Anheuser &...	Adolphus Busch.

Days out of prison in 1945, he married Maria Eva Duarte; we now know her as Evita	Juan Peron.

Numbers appears at this number position in the order of the books of the Bible	Fourth.

Strike up the band; this Christian organization turned 100 in June	The Salvation Army.

Except during WWII, this golf tournament has been played at the Augusta National Golf Club every year since 1934	The Masters.

It beats 2 pair, but not a straight	Three of a kind.

In pharmaceuticals: William Bristol &...	John Myers.

While trying to colonize what's now this state, Juan Ponce de Leon received a mortal wound from the natives	Florida.

Of the 12 spies sent, only Caleb & this future leader believed the Israelites could take Canaan	Joshua.

On January 20, 1965 he was inaugurated as U.S.

vice president	Hubert H.

Humphrey.

This stretch of closely mowed grass from the tee to the green may be straight or at an angle called a dogleg	Fairway.

Stalin, FDR & Churchill were known by this collective nickname when they met in Teheran in 1943	"The Big Three".

In advertising: Jay Chiat &...	Guy Day.

Juan Belmonte is considered the founder of the modern version of this sport, ole!	Bullfighting.

In chapter 8, this tribe of Israelites is appointed to work in the tabernacle	Levites.

Awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on Oct.

25, 1965, maybe it got its prize money in pennies on the 31st	UNICEF.

This hazard is simply a depression in the ground; if it contains sand it's called a sand trap	Bunker.

In 1979 this nuclear power plant near Harrisburg experienced a near meltdown	Three Mile Island.

In engines: Stephen Briggs &...	Harold Stratton.

1998's MVP in the American League was outfielder Juan Gonzalez, then with this team	Texas Rangers (now with the Tigers).

In chapter 20, Eleazar succeeds this man, his father, as high priest	Aaron.

This company's new Toronado eliminated the hump on the floor with a new drive system	Oldsmobile.

This "Royal & Ancient Golf Club" of Scotland set the standard for a round of golf at 18 holes	St.

Andrews.

Brecht & Weill's "Die Dreigroschenoper" is known as this in English	"The Threepenny Opera".

In fashion: Domenico Dolce &...	Stefano Gabbana.

In 1995 he was named ASCAP's Latin Songwriter of the Year & in 1996, sang a duet with Paul Anka	Juan Gabriel.

In 1976 this company produced the Pony, the first Korean car	Hyundai.

Advice that's the title of a 1941 W.C.

Fields film	Never Give a Sucker an Even Break.

Robert Peary was surprised to hear these natives accompanying him complain of cold noses	Eskimos.

ATL	Atlanta.

In the '70s he played America's favorite bigot, Archie Bunker	Carroll O'Connor.

Quirks of this Eurocar include the ignition lock in the center console	Saab.

It's enlightening to know the eighth day of the fourth lunar month is celebrated as his birthday	Buddha.

(Hi, I'm Garry Marshall)  I sent copy editor Drew Barrymore back to high school for an undercover assignment in this 1999 comedy	Never Been Kissed.

Edward Bransfield, a possible discoverer of Antarctica, had to battle these birds to get ashore	Penguins.

BRU	Brussels.

Before he was a Yippie leader & one of the "Chicago Seven", he was a pharmaceuticals salesman	Abbie Hoffman.

It's how you properly address the Queen of England	Maam.

The name of this martial art resembling karate is Korean for "art of kicking and punching"	Taekwondo.

This 1977 movie about a schizophrenic girl was adapted from Joanne Greenberg's book of the same name	I Never Promised You a Rose Garden.

In 1969, on dogsled, a British team made the first surface crossing of this ocean	Arctic Ocean.

In Scandinavia: CPH	Copenhagen.

A legendary lineman for the Giants & the Rams, he also published a "Needlepoint Book for Men"	Rosie (Roosevelt) Grier.

Biblical man with a talking ass	Balaam.

Reportedly, the farther south you go, the hotter you'll find this common dish of pickled cabbage	Kimchi.

Despite the promise of its title, this 1984 fantasy movie is 94 minutes long; the 1991 sequel is only 90 minutes	The Neverending Story.

This South Pole conqueror died trying to rescue Umberto Nobile, who eventually lived to be 93	Roald Amundsen.

On the continent: ORY	Paris (Orly).

He was a comic foil as Mr.

Mooney on "The Lucy Show" & Mr.

Wilson on "Dennis the Menace"	Gale Gordon.

Architect Eero	Saarinen.

South Korea's second-largest city, it gave its name to a Korean war "perimeter"	Pusan.

The 2 James Bond films that have "Never" in the title	Never Say Never Again & Tomorrow Never Dies.

This man who sailed with Scott later made a daring trek when his ship Endurance was trapped by ice	Ernest Shackleton.

In the Midwest: MSP	Minneapolis-St.

Paul.

He played the title character in "Sunday in the Park with George" when it debuted on Broadway	Mandy Patinkin.

This river "trans"its South Africa & flows into the Orange	Vaal River.

First published in 1946, a book written by this man became the bestselling book in the U.S.

after the Bible	Dr.

Benjamin Spock (\"Baby and Child Care\").

The Tebenna, an Etruscan mantle, evolved into this garment perhaps worn most strikingly by John Belushi	a toga.

This wrestler nicknamed his daughter born in August 2001 Pebbles	The Rock.

If you have this adjective before your name, like Nell or Eva, don't bother planning for your old age	Little.

What's now officially called the Central Park Wildlife Center is probably better-known by this name	the zoo.

Proverbially, this pungent bulb "makes a man wink, drink & stink"	garlic.

This state that acts as a conjunction between Nevada & Washington has an abbreviation that is a conjunction	Oregon.

Oscar Mayer could tell you that this is the city the Etruscans called Felsina	Bologna.

Fatally, American groupie Nancy Spungen was this British punk rocker's girlfriend	Sid Vicious.

Your job options include teacher & this related job of the heroines in "Jane Eyre" & "Vanity Fair"	governess.

Central Park has a statue of King Wladyslaw II Jagiello of this country, who was also Grand Duke of Lithuania	Poland.

It's the Belgian province bordering the Netherlands that's famous for originating a smelly cheese	Limburgh.

The abbreviation of this state is also an abbreviation for the largest city in California	Louisiana.

Along with the Borgia apartments, the Etruscan Museum is one of the top attractions in this 109-acre country	Vatican City.

She owns the St.

Louis Rams	Georgia Frontiere.

Even if you're 27 & still single, like Anne in this author's "Persuasion", your life may not be over	Jane Austen.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew jogs through Central Park.)  I'm running around the reservoir now named for this first lady, who lived nearby and used to go jogging here	Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.

This cartoon character's big screen credits include "For Scent-imental Reasons" & "Heaven Scent"	Pep Le Pew.

Show me that the abbreviation for this state means the habits of a predictable criminal	Missouri.

The wolf in the Capitoline Wolf statue may be Etruscan; these 2 babies she's suckling were added around 1509	Romulus & Remus.

This actor gave a speech for Harvard roommate Al Gore at the 2000 Democratic Convention	Tommy Lee Jones.

Like Gertrude in this author's "The Europeans", go ahead & marry a relative (it might get you out of your house, too)	Henry James.

In the 1953 film "The Band Wagon" Fred Astaire & this leggy partner were "Dancing In The Dark" through Central Park	Cyd Charisse.

The strong odor of this semi-aquatic rodent gives it its name	the muskrat.

When abbreviated before the number 47, this state becomes an assault weapon	Alaska.

A 1927 visit to Etruscan sites inspired this author of "The Plumed Serpent" to write "Etruscan Places"	D.H.

Lawrence.

M.C.

Hammer earned his nickname from his resemblance to this "Hammerin'" home run king	Hank Aaron.

Unlike Dorothea in this George Eliot book, marry for love, not intellectual compatibility	Middlemarch.

Cleopatra's Needle is a short walk from this Egyptian Temple in the Metropolitan Museum of Art	the Temple of Dendur.

The only film ever released in "Odorama", it shares its name with a synthetic fabric popular in the 1970s	Polyester.

State whose abbreviation is also a cabinet department that was formed in 1989	Virginia.

This South Carolina city that gave us a popular dance in the 1930s was the site of the first opera in America in 1735	Charleston.

When making this classic Chinese soup, be sure to remove the twigs, feathers & insects first	bird's nest soup.

On New Year's Day 2002, this school's Seminoles beat Virginia Tech 30-17 to win the Gator Bowl	Florida State University.

The A.M.E.

in A.M.E.

Church stands for African Methodist this	Episcopal.

The four-color problem relates to the minimum number of colors needed for this cartographic item	a map.

These peptide hormones in the brain reduce the sensation of pain	endorphins.

In 1750 theater was banned in this then-colonial capital as a form of Mass.

entertainment	Boston.

To enjoy this national Swiss dish, you'd better like cheese, lots of it, melted in wine	fondue.

In 2001 Brian Cappelletto won this game's World Championship with words like vozhd for 50 points & jerrid for 44	Scrabble.

Less than 20% of all Muslims are Shi'ites or of other groups; the rest belong to this branch	Sunni.

Ferdinand von Lindemann proved the problem of "squaring" this with compass & ruler was impossible	the circle.

2-word term for the consumer, for whom a computer is ultimately designed	an end user.

Some of the earliest surviving colonial portraits are of Richard & Increase, members of this family	the Mathers.

The seafood in this Mexican dish is "cooked" not by heat, but by the acid in lime juice	ceviche.

In 1993 she became the first woman from Ukraine to win the world figure skating championships	Oksana Baiul.

Founded by & named for a Persian prophet, this religion flourished during Persia's Achaemenian empire	Zoroastrianism.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew peruses a model train hobbyist's fantasy setup.)  If train "A" leaves at 6:00 at 60 mph, & train "B" leaves at 5:00 at 90 mph, this equation, d=rt, tells you when B passes A	distance equals rate times time.

This Baja California port city is known as "Yellowtail Capital of the World"	Ensenada.

Meaning "tobacco peddler", it's the title of a 1708 Ebenezer Cooke poem & a 1960 John Barth novel about Cooke	The Sot-Weed Factor.

This Greek dish typically consists of layers of eggplant & ground lamb or beef topped with a white sauce	moussaka.

At Wimbledon 2000, Venus Williams expressed appreciation for this 1957 & '58 champion	Althea Gibson.

Traditionally, in Judaism a ram's horn called this is blown at the end of Yom Kippur	shofar.

To apply relativity to the cosmos, Einstein introduced a term called the "cosmological" this	constant.

The U.S.

conducted nuclear tests on this atoll in the Marshall Islands from 1948 to 1958	Enewetak.

James Alexander, whose doggerel contributed to this publisher's arrest, helped defend him as a lawyer	Zenger.

On an Italian menu this term describes pasta with a sauce of eggs, cream, parmesan & bacon	carbonara.

The last British athlete to win the Olympic decathlon, he won it back-to-back in 1980 & 1984	Daley Thompson.

Joseph Smith translated the Book of Mormon from gold plates revealed to him by an angel named this	Moroni.

This Frenchman's "last theorem", stated in 1637, was proved by Andrew Wiles in the 1990s	(Pierre de) Fermat.

John Keats wrote a poem about this handsome Greek whose youth was preserved by eternal sleep	Endymion.

Number of males who served as British PM in the 1990s plus Oscars won by Tom Hanks plus protons in a helium nucleus	6 (2 + 2 + 2).

Crackowes were a style of these with toes so long they were sometimes attached to the knees with chains	shoes.

One suffering from bruxomania unconsciously gnashes these	Teeth.

Sotheby's has announced it won't sell any items of this tusk material produced since 1939	Ivory.

It's the basic unit of currency of Australia	Australian Dollar.

Until 1954 major league players could leave these on the field when it was their team's turn to bat	Gloves.

When Charlie Brown gave Snoopy one of these, it took Snoopy an hour to put it on the flea	Flea Collar.

Eleanor of Aquitaine accompanied her 1st husband, King Louis VII, on the 2nd one of these in 1147	Crusades.

In a 1987 hit Whitney Houston showed signs of choreomania  when she wanted to do this with somebody	Dance.

The scarab, lotus flower & Isis knot were all designs used in this country's jewelry	Egypt.

After America won its independence, the British decided to ship these people to Australia	Convicts/Prisoners.

A curved wicker basket called a cesta is used to catch & throw the ball in this sport	jai alai.

Of a 25th, 30th or 40th anniversary, what "Peanuts" is celebrating in 1990	40th Anniversary.

It's estimated this dread 14th century epidemic killed 1/3 of the population of Europe	Black Death.

A lycomaniac has a howling time believing he is one of these	Wolf.

Known for its malleability & white brilliance, this rare metal has been used in jewelry since the 19th C.	Platinum.

The name of this capital city is Aboriginal for "meeting place"	Canberra.

1 of 2 pieces of equipment in track & field that weigh 16 pounds	Hammer & Shot-Put.

When Lucy invites Charlie Brown to kick a football, you can expect her to do this	Pull it out from under him.

2 types of these which were especially popular during the Middle Ages were "Miracle" & "Morality"	Types of plays.

A dipsomaniac craves this, not guacamole	Alcoholic Beverages.

Josiah Wedgwood designed these jewelry pieces using a white paste relief on a colored backgorund	Cameos.

"Banjo" Paterson, known for his "bush ballads", wrote this song, 1st published in 1917	"Waltzing Matilda".

Alternate name for the number one wood in golf	Driver.

This girl's name was inspired by a type of candy	Peppermint Patty.

This famous "song" is a romanticized account of the Battle of Roncesvalles, fought in 778	"Song Of Roland".

From the Greek for "great", it's the delusion of wealth, power or omnipotence	Megalomania.

Tahiti & French Polynesia are famous for pearls of this color	Black.

This flightless bird is featured on Australia's coat of arms	Emu.

This apparatus used in women's gymnastics is about 4 in.

wide & 16 ft.

long	Balance Beam.

Charlie Brown's parents bought Snoopy at this puppy farm	Daisy Hill Puppy Farm.

On average this city packs more than 23,000 people into 1 sq.

mile	New York City.

2 of his pen names were rather transparent: Antosha Chekhonte & Anton Ch.	Anton Chekhov.

The only mobile bone of the face	Mandible.

Both a she-wolf & a woodpecker fed & cared for them until they were found by Faustulus	Romulus & Remus.

Something that evokes happiness & sadness at the same time, or a kind of chocolate	Bittersweet.

This title character's last name is McLonergan, not Rainbow	Finian.

Caucasians constitute about 1/3 of this state's population	Hawaii.

Dublin-born playwright John Casey changed his name to this, which sounds more Irish	Sean O' Casey.

The nephrons function as filtering units in this pair of organs	Kidneys.

In all of Babylonia, Pyramus was the handsomest youth & she was the fairest maiden	Thisbe.

Term for stunt pilots or politicians who tour small towns to show they've got the right stuff	Barnstormer.

(AUDIO DAILY DOUBLE): Gwen Verdon sang the following song in the original Broadway version of this show: "Whatever Lola wants, Lola gets..."	"Damn Yankees!".

Even though it's officially "dry", this state's Moore County is the home of Jack Daniel's Whiskey	Tennessee.

We don't know why this dame sometimes wrote under the name Mary Westmacott; it's a mystery to us	Agatha Christie.

The term for the brain & spinal cord, often abbreviated CNS	Central Nervous System.

He travels to Ireland to ask the hand of the princess Isolde for his uncle, King Mark of Cornwall	Tristan.

Don't complain to your waiter that your soup is cold if you're served this French potato soup	Vichysoisse.

This show opens with a Ziegfeld star waiting for her husband to be released from prison	"Funny Girl".

Ironically, the prison inmates of this state produce license plates which read "Live Free Or Die"	New Hampshire.

Pseudonym of the mysterious recluse who wrote "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre"	B.

Traven.

This section of the digestive tract is divided into the duodenum, jejunum & ileum	Small Intestine.

Wounded by Cupid's arrow, Venus fell in love with this handsome guy at 1st sight	Adonis.

Another name for mercury, it also means mercurial or temperamental	Quicksilver.

Mrs.

Ray Bolger co-produced this 1948 Ray Bolger musical based on "Charley's Aunt"	"Where's Charley?".

1 of the largest lakes in Minnesota, its name begins with the same 5 letters as Minnesota	Lake Minnetonka.

Rosemary Jansze, who was born in Ceylon, writes her romance novels under this married name	Rosemary Rogers.

The 4 principal arteries of the head & neck are all called this	Carotid Arteries.

Until the night he drowned, Leander swam across the Hellespont every night to meet her	Hero.

Term for someone who collects deniers, drachmas & doubloons	Numismatist.

This show features a concubine from Burma named Tuptim	"The King And I".

He published a history of Virginia & New England in 1624, after escaping from Turks, Indians & pirates	Captain John Smith.

This star of "Kojak" admits he shaves his head every morning	Telly Savalas.

"When you care enough to send the very best", send one of these	Hallmark Card.

Among these tales told by Jesus were those "of the net", "of the mustard seed" & "of the hidden treasures"	Parables.

Airplanes can trigger bolts of this when traveling through electrified clouds	Lightning.

This word commonly follows cuff or missing	Link.

Gerald Ford was the last president born under this "crab"by sign	Cancer.

Creator of "The Cisco Kid", William Sidney Porter was better known by this name	O.

Henry.

"Wouldn't you really rather have" one of these cars	Buick.

I Corinthians 7:9 states, "It is better to marry than to" do this	Burn.

Air is described as supersaturated when the relative humidity is higher than this percent	100%.

From the Greek word for "deep sleep", it's a deep, prolonged unconsciousness	Coma.

It's Jimmy Carter's sign, so don't tip his scales	Libra.

"The First Time Ever" she had a No.

1 album was "First Take" in 1972	Roberta Flack.

"I like" this lemon-lime soda "in you"	Sprite.

It was like coriander seed, white; & the taste of it was like wafers made with honey	Manna.

Tornadoes that develop over water are called these	Waterspouts.

It can be part of your foot, your shoe, your stocking or your loaf of bread	Heel.

Appropriately, we've had 2 presidents born under this sign, Bush & Kennedy	Gemini.

George Bush pardoned this 91-year-old industrialist for his illegal contributions to Nixon's campaign	Armand Hammer.

"Tan, don't burn use" this	Coppertone.

Things saved from this city were the gold & silver, the iron & brass vessels & Rahab & her family	Jericho.

Season of the year when Arizona has its "monsoons"	Summer.

A roue, or his garden implement	Rake.

Our last Sagittarian pres.; his last name sounds like something Sagittarius' arrows could do	(Franklin) Pierce.

Ines de la Fressange was a Chanel model when she was chosen to represent this French symbol	Marianne.

This maker of pre-school toys says, "Our work is child's play"	Fisher-Price.

While carting this, Uzza touched it to right it after the oxen stumbled, & the Lord smote him	The Ark of the Covenant.

An increase in air temperature at higher altitudes is unusual & is called this	Inversion.

A raisin can be called by this other fruit's name when it's added to a pudding or a cake	Plum.

With the exception of R.

Reagan, all the presidents born under this sign died in office	Aquarius (W.H.

Harrison, Lincoln, McKinley & FDR were the presidents who died in office).

The iris is a flower & the ibis is one of these	Bird.

This country is named after the town of Oporto	Portugal.

In this 1935 film that made him a star, Errol Flynn was Dr.

Peter Blood, a physician who turns to piracy	"Captain Blood".

He wrote a non-baby book called "Decent And Indecent: Our Personal And Political Behavior"	Dr.

Benjamin Spock.

It became a U.S.

territory in 1900 & a state 59 years later	Hawaii.

Malaga is a sweet dessert wine that originated in this country	Spain.

In a healthy mouth, this line separates the crown from the root of a tooth	Gum Line.

The Sea of Galilee is just a broad basin of this river	The River Jordan.

Anthony Quinn was a pirate stuck with stowaway children in the film "A High Wind In" this place	Jamaica.

This author's home where he wrote "To Have And Have Not" is now a nat'l landmark in Key West, Fla.	Ernest Hemingway.

Susan B.

Anthony was arrested in 1872 for doing this	Voting.

On wine labels, this word which means "estate" precedes Lafite & Mouton-Rothschild	Chateau.

Every summer thousands of these animals go to the Pribilof Islands in the north Pacific to breed	Seals.

The surface of this lake in Siberia is about 1,490 ft.

above sea level, the bottom over 5,300 ft.

below	Lake Baikal.

Silent screen swashbuckler; his film "The Black Pirate" has been called "a definitive pirate movie"	Douglas Fairbanks, Sr..

Oscar Wilde's only novel	"The Picture Of Dorian Gray".

In 1949 Henry H.

Arnold became the first general of this branch of the armed forces	Air Force.

"Anatomical" term for a wine's bouquet	Nose.

Man-made metal 1st positively identified in 1958 & named for a Swedish inventor; it has no known use	Nobelium.

Papua New Guinea is just off this country's Cape York Peninsula	Australia.

Robert Newton played this pirate before Peter Ustinov played his ghost in a Disney film	Blackbeard.

An eye ailment contracted at Eton School ended his plans to study biology, like his brother Julian	Aldous Huxley.

In April 1984 this U.S.

government agency admitted its role in the mining of Nicaraguan harbors	CIA.

The term for pouring wine into another container before serving; it helps clear it of sediments	Decanting.

Take the fibrinogen out of blood plasma & you're left with a fluid called this	Serum.

1 of the 2 Central American countries with only 1 sea coast	Belize & El Salvador.

Ingrid Bergman's husband in "Casablanca", he played a pirate captain in "Pirates Of Tripoli"	Paul Henreid.

A member of the Algonquin Round Table, this petite brunette wrote a story called "Big Blonde"	Dorothy Parker.

John Hancock held this political position from 1780-85 & from 1787-93	Governor of Massachusetts.

The famous Moselle wines come from this country	Germany.

The name of this channel can be traced back to a movie theater that opened in 1905 in McKeesport, Pa.	Nickelodeon.

(Jon of the Clue Crew teaches his dog Rocko to sit.)  Rocko, sit!  When I teach human kids, I wish I could use the commands that are taught in this class, from the Latin for "listen"--Okay!	obedience class.

At the beginning of her 2005 "Boyfriend" video, she is being chased by the police	Ashlee Simpson.

Hold the ends of the coiled toy first sold in 1945, then raise & lower each hand in a rhythmic motion	work a Slinky (a Slinky accepted).

The first of these were awarded in 1901 & they are given out yearly for Physics, Chemistry, Peace & 3 other disciplines	the Nobel Prizes.

This type of hard sausage is America's favorite pizza topping	pepperoni.

"If" he "picked a peck of pickled peppers, where's the peck of pickled peppers" he "picked"?	Peter Piper.

(Jon of the Clue Crew points out Rocko's blue collar pedigree.)  Some collars have both an insecticide to kill these jumping insects & a growth regulator to attack the eggs	fleas.

Paris Hilton is in this rapper's "Just Lose It" video; he appears as himself & as Santa Claus, among others	Eminem.

Churn a sweet dairy mix in a container that's surrounded by frozen water & salt	make ice cream.

In 1990 Paul McCartney received a Lifetime Achievement Award at these awards	the Grammys.

How about a nice traditional Hawaiian pizza topped with ham or Canadian bacon & this fruit	pineapple.

An evening where 2 couples go out together	a double date.

(Jon of the Clue Crew gets ready to clean Rocko's teeth with a finger-mounted brush.)  Just like you, dogs need to get rid of this film that can build up into tartar--regular brushing sure helps	plaque.

At the 2004 MTV VMAs, No Doubt won Best Group Video & Best Pop Video for this song	"It's My Life".

Holding the bottom of the ear in the left hand, grasp the husk from the top with the right hand & pull down	shuck corn.

A brave French soldier might receive the award known as the "Croix de Guerre", meaning "Cross of" this	War.

These on your pizza may be fire-roasted, sun-dried, or just fresh sliced Romas	tomatoes.

An appointed hour to play golf	tee time.

(Rocko lends Jon of the Clue Crew a paw.)  Apply cream to your dog's pads before a winter walk; they're made of skin just like yours with this as the outer layer	epidermis.

This former "Moesha" star rides around on the bus in her "Who Is She 2 U" video	Brandy.

Dial 011-33-1 & a local number, say "Pourrais-je parler a M.

Chirac?"	call the president of France.

The Borg-Warner Trophy is awarded every year to the winner of this epic auto race held on Memorial Day weekend	the Indy 500.

On November 12 celebrate National Pizza with the Works Except these fish Day	Anchovies.

The almost indestructible flight recording device is known by this "colorful" name	the black box.

(Rocko gets frisky with his owner Jon of the Clue Crew.)  Regular exercise benefits this system, a word referring to the heart & blood vessels together	the cardiovascular system.

Her video for "Baby It's You" features Bow Wow & takes place at an amusement park	Jojo.

Attach a pencil to a string, pin the other end of the string down & move the pencil around the pin	draw a circle.

In 1921 Edith Wharton became the first woman to win the Fiction prize named for this news publisher	Pulitzer.

Wild ones of these found on pizza include shiitakes, morels & chanterelles	mushrooms.

Daisy Buchanan is the object of a racketeer's desire in this 1925 Fitzgerald novel	The Great Gatsby.

1902: The first First Lady	Martha Washington.

Hong Kong titled the second movie about this creature "I May Be A Pig, But I Am Not Stupid"	Babe.

He was honored for discovering "hundreds of new uses for crops such as the peanut"	George Washington Carver.

In 46 B.C.

this Egyptian came with Caesar to Rome, where her statue was placed in the temple of Venus Genetrix	Cleopatra.

The immortal 6 words that begin Lee Bernstein's opus sung on "Barney & Friends" to the tune of "This Old Man"	I love you; you love me.

Book of Genesis garden	Eden.

1952: A famous seamstress & flagmaker	Betsy Ross.

They were the 2 main stars of the sequel Hong Kong knew as "Special Unit in Black Glasses Part 2"	Tommy Lee Jones & Will Smith.

Inducted in 1973, he "earned patents for more than a thousand inventions, including...

the phonograph"	Edison.

Caesar divorced his wife after a scandal & said, "Caesar's wife must be above" this	suspicion.

Marvell rhymed, "Had we but world enough, and" this, his mistress' coyness "were no crime"	time.

This type of year happens once every four	leap.

1994: A Shoshone guide for a famous expedition	Sacagawea.

China and Taiwan reached the agreement that this film at "Full Throttle" would be "Hot Chicks: Full Speed"	Charlie's Angels.

"'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' was the first full length animated film to use" this inductee's multiplane camera	Walt Disney.

In his early 20s, Julius Caesar traveled to this "colossal" island to study rhetoric under Molon	Rhodes.

It makes sense that Marlowe's "passionate shepherd" promises his love "a gown made of the finest" this	wool.

Brown & white are the main U.S.

types of this pouch-mouthed bird	pelican.

1907: A Powhatan princess	Pocahontas.

In Greece, this Eddie Murphy film became "Daddies as Nannies"	Daddy Day Care.

A 1975 inductee, he gave us "an electronic alphabet that could carry messages"	(Samuel) Morse.

After defeating Pharnaces II at Zela, Caesar dispatched this 3-part message to the Roman Senate	Veni, vidi, vici (I came, I saw, I conquered).

A Shakespeare sonnet accuses this purple flower of steaing its smell from the poet's love	the violet.

Fake wooden bird used by hunters to attract ducks	decoy.

1963: A pilot	Amelia Earhart.

In Finland, this Tim Burton film was subtitled "Fish Stories as Large as Life Itself"	Big Fish.

This French chemist inducted in 1978 "was the founder of microbiological sciences"	(Louis) Pasteur.

Around 48 B.C.

Caesar pardoned this man & later made him governor of Cisalpine Gaul; oops	Brutus.

"Wi' monie a vow and locked embrace our parting was fu' tender", he wrote of "Highland Mary"	Rabbie Burns.

Genetic duplicate	clone.

Since 1776, it has been the only U.S.

state to be the most populous state for more than a century	New York.

Few have heard of his first novel, "The Snake's Pass", but everyone knows his "Dracula"	Bram Stoker.

"Fly The Friendly Skies..."	United Airlines.

Elementary, my dear Watson:  "Baker Street" was a musical about this detective	Sherlock Holmes.

Christian tradition says this archangel will blow his trumpet to announce the Second Coming	Gabriel.

Jura, Schweitzer, Lucerne & Berner are the 4 types of this country's laufhund	Switzerland.

This contagious viral disease can occasionally cause sterility in males	Mumps.

His first novel, "The Town And The City", might be good to read while you're "On The Road"	Jack Kerouac.

"We Bring Good Things To Life"	General Electric.

"Comin' Uptown" moved this classic tale to Harlem; it starred Gregory Hines as a slumlord named Scrooge	A Christmas Carol.

South America's southernmost point, its rocky terrain rises to a height of 1,391 feet	Cape Horn.

Seen here, it's named for a peninsula shared by Quebec & Newfoundland	Labrador Retriever.

....I said it's to utter something quietly & unclearly!	Mumble.

This "Brideshead Revisited" author's career was ascendant when he published his first novel, "Decline And Fall"	Evelyn Waugh.

"Tastes So Good Cats Ask For It By Name"	Meow Mix.

Danny Kaye's career "ark" included this Biblical role in "Two By Two"	Noah.

All species of this large land creature, whose name is from the Greek for "nose-horned", are nearly extinct	Rhinoceros.

If this Norwegian breed had originated in North America, it would be called the moosehound	Elkhound.

This 2-word term for confusing language may come from a Mande phrase for "ancestor wearing a pompom"	Mumbo-jumbo.

Sadly, the manuscript of her very first novel was destroyed in a fire in Nanking	Pearl S.

Buck.

"The Power To Be Your Best"	Apple Computer.

Bully for Len Cariou, who played this famous man in the musical "Teddy And Alice"	Theodore Roosevelt.

This "continental" wind instrument is played with one hand inside the bell to control its tone	French horn.

This dog once prized by the Aztecs is sometimes called perro pelon, "bald dog"	the Mexican hairless.

Formerly called Bombay, it's in the top 5 cities in the world in population	Mumbai.

He was poet-in-residence at the University of South Carolina when he delivered his first novel, "Deliverance"	James Dickey.

"When It Absolutely, Positively Has To Be There Overnight"	Federal Express.

Shaun Cassidy was 10 years old when these actors, his parents, starred in the 1968 musical "Maggie Flynn"	Jack Cassidy & Shirley Jones.

According to mythology, this Horn of Plenty is the horn of the goat Amalthea	Cornucopia.

The Australian cattle dog was first bred in the 19th century from collies, kelpies & this wild canine	Dingo.

You'll see this group parading through Philly each New Year's Day	Mummers.

This wise king of Israel had "Forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen"	Solomon.

In 1998 Brian Dennehy made his first appearance as Red Finch, David Spade's firefighter father, on this hit series	Just Shoot Me.

"Aloha State"	Hawaii.

In January 1999 we found out Viacom had its eye on this TV network	CBS.

In 1578 a Mongolian ruler first gave the leader of Tibet's Yellow Hat sect of Buddhism this title	Dalai Lama.

Adjective in the name of the site seen here:	grand (Canyon).

Under the command of this Babylonian king, Nebuzaradan burned "All the houses of Jerusalem"	Nebuchadnezzar.

(Hi, I'm Heather Tom of The Young and the Restless.)  My sister Nicholle played Mr.

Sheffield's daughter Maggie on this Fran Drescher sitcom	The Nanny.

"10,000 Lakes"	Minnesota.

In November 1998 Daimler-Benz-AG parked this American automaker in its garage	Chrysler.

The Vikings founded this city in the mid-800s, probably naming it for a black pool in the river Liffey	Dublin.

As a noun, it's pieces for fastening; as an adjective it's large & robust, like some young men	strapping.

In 1 Corinthians, he wrote that "Your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God"	Paul.

In January 2000 this libidinous HBO show won the Golden Globe for Best Comedy Series	Sex and the City.

"Native America"	Oklahoma.

In 1998 Norwest Corporation acquired this bank all in one stage without coaching	Wells Fargo.

In 1868 he became the first person of Jewish ancestry to become prime minister of Great Britain	Benjamin Disraeli.

It can refer to a person without mercy or to a Bible missing the book between Judges & Samuel	ruthless.

This son of Jacob served under Potiphar, captain of Pharaoh's palace guard	Joseph.

In 1999 an ABC sitcom dropped "a Pizza Place" from its name, which changed to this	Two Guys and a Girl.

"First In Flight"	North Carolina.

Exxon moved to merge with this corporation in December 1998	Mobil.

In 1793 this former mistress of Louis XV was guillotined for aiding those seeking to restore the monarchy	Madame Dubarry.

Adjective in the name of Hans, the turn-of-the-century calculating horse	clever.

While they were mending their nets, John & this brother were summoned by Jesus to become disciples	James.

"Gilligan's Island" creator Sherwood Schwartz said he wrote this role with his friend Jim Backus in mind	Thurston Howell III.

"Great Lakes Splendor"	Michigan.

On March 9, 1999 AT&T officially hooked itself up with this cable company (we figure sometime between 1 & 5 PM)	TCI (Telecommunications, Inc.).

This long-range radar "line" was established in 1957 to warn the U.S.

& Canada of air attack from over the North Pole	DEW (Distant Early Warning) Line.

When found before "potato", it's not a potato; before "meats", not meats; & before "bread", not bread	sweet.

It's Asia's southernmost national capital	Jakarta (Indonesia).

In 1946 Hans Frank, Rudolf Hess & Fritz Sauckel were among those convicted of war crimes in this city	Nuremberg.

It was Major Margaret Houlihan's sexy nickname	"Hot Lips".

Hickham Field sustained damage during the Japanese attack on this nearby site December 7, 1941	Pearl Harbor.

Taurus & T-Bird	Ford.

In a song in "The Fantasticks", "Soon it's gonna" do this, "I can see it.

Soon it's gonna" do this, "I can tell"	Rain.

An introductory part in a novel	Prologue.

After their convictions, this pair became the first civilians put to death for espionage in the U.S.	Julius & Ethel Rosenberg.

Johnny Mandel wrote this "painless" tune that was the show's theme song	"Suicide is Painless".

The Yellow Brick Road leads to it	The Emerald City.

Legend & Integra	Acura.

This William Inge play inspired a Marilyn Maxwell TV series & a Marilyn Monroe film	Bus Stop.

Gosh darn it!  It's abusive, vulgar or irreverent language	Profanity.

This famous orator aided the prosecution of John Scopes during Tennessee's sensational "Monkey" trial	William Jennings Bryan.

William Christopher played this lovable chaplain on the show	Father Mulcahy.

Sir Joseph Paxton's palace, or Dr.

Robert Schuller's cathedral	Crystal.

Stratus & Stealth	Dodge.

In titles of musicals, this word stands alone, follows "Bubbling Brown" & precedes "Babies"	Sugar.

The "dry" period in which the 18th Amendment was in force	Prohibition.

Despite a highly controversial trial, these 2 were executed for murders in 1920 at a Mass.

factory	Sacco & Vanzetti.

Company clerk "Radar" O'Reilly was from this state	Iowa.

You can keep the valuable rocks you find in the state park near Murfreesboro, Arkansas: Crater of these	Diamonds.

Protege & Millenia	Mazda.

Big Stone Gap, Virginia is home to the outdoor drama "Trail of the Lonesome" this	Pine.

The working class	Proletariat.

Evidence of this man's guilt in a famous 1935 kidnapping case included finding ransom money at his house	Bruno Hauptmann.

The colonel & lt.

colonel who were the 4077th's commanding officers	Lt.

Col.

Henry Blake & Col.

Sherman Potter.

During a 1992 standoff, the FBI captured white supremacist Randy Weaver at this Idaho site	Ruby Ridge.

Corniche & Silver Shadow	Rolls-Royce.

Shakespeare's play about this Tudor king begins, "I come no more to make you laugh..."	Henry VIII.

The ceremonial etiquette observed by diplomats & heads of state	Protocol.

In July 1994 this Jordanian king signed a peace agreement with Israel's prime minister Yitzhak Rabin	King Hussein.

Departments in this weekly include "Faces in the Crowd", "Catching Up With..." & "SI View"	Sports Illustrated.

Statues of Ms.

Baez, Ms.

Collins & Ms.

Didion are part of this monument	Joanhenge.

In 1876 Victoria was delighted to receive the title "Empress of" this Asian land	India.

6-letter term for the job associated with the item seen here (medieval mask)	Jester.

In 1976 this current president of France founded the Rally for the Republic Party	Jacques Chirac.

In 1953 Triangle Publications began publishing this media magazine...& boy was it successful!	TV Guide.

This "Mannix" star was known as Touch Connors when he played an Amalekite herder in the film	Mike Connors.

This area with structures called "Princess" & "Trimline" may have been a communication center	Phonehenge.

Britain celebrated Victoria's Golden Jubilee in 1887 & recovered in time for this jubilee in 1897	Diamond.

Ms.

Rodham Clinton's first name comes from the same Latin root as this word meaning "very funny"	Hilarious.

He was born in 1921 on the island of Java; he left office in 1998	Suharto.

Conan O'Brien was the first since Robert Benchley to be president of this Harvard humor magazine 2 straight years	Harvard Lampoon.

It's easy to get lost in this arrangement of genetically identical creations	Clonehenge.

Victoria found this poet laureate's "In Memoriam" a great comfort in her widowhood	Alfred Lord Tennyson.

Shylock asked, "If you prick us, do we not bleed?  If you" do this, "do we not laugh?"	Tickle us.

On August 29, 1995 Eduard Shevardnadze, president of this country, was wounded by a car bomb	Georgia.

In 1990, he became editor-in-chief of his late father's namesake business magazine	Steve Forbes.

Head down south to see this, a plain covered with pieces of fried corn bread	Ponehenge.

As seen in a 1997 film, he was Victoria's beloved servant, but we're not sure how she felt about his "body"	John Brown.

The first one was added in 1950 by the producers of NBC's "The Hank McCune Show"	Laugh track.

In 1964 Luxembourg's grand duchess abdicated in favor of this man, her son	Grand Duke Jean.

This man's "Lady's Book" was published in Philadelphia from 1830 to 1892	Louis Godey.

The queen bee is missing from the center of this enclosure; only a ring of males remains	Dronehenge.

Queen Victoria was said to be happiest at this "humble" Scottish home	Balmoral Castle.

As a noted joke pirate, Milton Berle was punningly known as "The Thief of" these	Bad Gags.

One story says this point was so named becuase it was a positive sign of a sea route from Europe to India	Cape of Good Hope.

It has the largest enrollment of any university in Utah	Brigham Young.

This tire co.

paid Rip Hamilton "to braid his hair in the tread pattern of one of its tires", not blimps	Goodyear.

"Pamela" is an epistolary one & may be the first English one	a novel.

A computer with 98,000 names & SSNs was reported stolen from this oldest campus of the Univ.

of Calif.	Berkeley.

A unit of distance equal to 220 yards	a furlong.

Varieties of this fish include brown, rainbow & cutthroat	trout.

In 1865 this school in Poughkeepsie became the first women's college in the U.S.

to have facilities equal to the men's schools	Vassar.

A Little League team in Kentucky is sponsored by this "delightfully tacky yet unrefined" restaurant	Hooters.

A villanella, an Italian song, became a villanelle, a French this	a poem.

Named for a sport that embodies high society, this Ralph Lauren co.

was hacked for 180,000 credit card numbers	Polo.

This arachnid is also called a harvestman	a daddy long-legs.

Baseball's Mr.

Hunter might've appreciated this bottom feeder, seen here	a catfish.

In 1937 this Malibu, Calif.

university was established by & named for the founder of Western Auto Supply Company	Pepperdine.

This Miami Heat superstar center's "wife, Shaunie, said their family has outgrown its 18-bedroom home"	Shaquille O'Neal.

The name of this literary form also means "to try"	an essay.

This company that owns HBO & Turner Broadcasting lost a backup tape with 600,000 names & SSNs	Time Warner.

Random House says this is a "chiefly Texas" term for a bottle of beer	a longneck.

Pleuronectidae, one family of this fish, generally has eyes on the right side; another, Bothidae, on the left	flounder.

This Tulsa, Oklahoma school's athletic teams are called the Golden Eagles, not the Evangelists	Oral Roberts University.

"A ski jumping competition in" this country, Land of the Midnight Sun, "rewarded competitors for landing in trees"	Norway.

The story of Gisli Sursson, or John Jakes' chronicle of the Kent family	sagas.

Data on 4 million customers were lost by this group formed by a 1998 merger with Travelers	Citigroup.

12-letter term for one employed on the wharves of a port	a longshoreman.

When this fish is "red", it's been smoked; if "red" in slang, it's a misleading clue	a herring.

This West Lafayette, Indiana school's Hall of Music has seating for more than 6,000	Purdue.

"Golfer John Daly has...

endorsement deals with" Dunkin' Donuts & this Anna Nicole Smith-endorsed diet aid	TrimSpa.

In the 1880s Guy de Maupassant published 300 of these	short stories.

A medical group lost 185,000 personal & medical records in this city, the seat of Santa Clara County	San Jose.

2-word term for the body part highlighted here	medulla oblongata.

The name of this type of fish seen here also means an elevated position	a perch.

The city of Balboa is the Pacific terminus of this 51-mile-long canal	the Panama Canal.

Detectives Diane Russell, Jill Kirkendall & Connie McDowell were on the job for this ABC drama	NYPD Blue.

Sending money was the best her friends could do for her	Esther (best her).

This country celebrates its 1945 independence from Fascism on April 25th	Italy.

Burned in 1864, this city was placed under martial law following racial tensions in September 1906	Atlanta.

You'll often find a statue's feet atop this kind of base whose name is from the Latin for "foot"	a pedestal.

While in Milan in the late 15th century, this artist designed locks to join the city's canals	Leonardo da Vinci.

Wojo, Harris, Yemana & Fish were 12th Precinct detectives on this sitcom	Barney Miller.

Fight the evil mojo by using your good voodoo	Job (mojo by).

Though it was first settled by the French, July 1 marks its partial independence from the U.K.	Canada.

Now take this question...

please!  This "King of the One Liners" was born March 16, 1906	Henny Youngman.

Fancy Valentines often feature this delicate fabric whose name comes from the Latin for "to trap or snare"	lace.

In 1825 the Seneca Chief became the first boat to traverse the length of this canal, reaching NYC on Nov.

4	the Erie Canal.

Max Greevey & Mike Logan were the original 2 N.Y.

detectives who investigated crimes in the 1st half of this show	Law & Order.

Top chefs know that Pez rarely makes it onto the menu	Ezra (pez rarely).

This Asian island nation gained independence from the U.S.

in 1946 but celebrates its 1898 freedom from Spain on June 12	the Philippines.

In September the Platt Amendment was invoked, allowing U.S.

intervention in this Caribbean country	Cuba.

It's from the Latin for "talking to oneself"; an example is heard here  "I'll have grounds more relative than this.

The play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King"	a soliloquy.

With capital of about $40 million set in place, work was begun on this waterway in April 1859	the Suez Canal.

In 1982 Sharon Gless took over for Meg Foster to partner with Tyne Daily as this title pair	Cagney & Lacey.

For hungry sandwich lovers, jam ostensibly makes the peanut butter better	Amos (jam ostensibly).

This North European country marks December 6 for its 1917 independence from Russia	Finland.

In 1906 there were 90 of these; nearly two-thirds of them were Republican	senators.

From the Latin for "tail", it's the section of a musical composition that brings it to a close	the coda.

Located at Sault Ste.

Marie, the St.

Marys Falls Canal connects these 2 Great Lakes	Lake Superior & Lake Huron.

In the '70s this Taos, N.M.

Deputy Marshal was on temporary assignment in Manhattan's 27th Precinct	McCloud.

From answers to questions; that's "Jeopardy!"	Romans (From answers).

It was annexed by Indonesia but became independent on May 20, 2002	East Timor.

The 1906 murder of Grace Brown in New York State inspired Theodore Dreiser to write this novel	An American Tragedy.

A fun way to get to the top of a mountain is this kind of cable railway whose name is from the Latin for "rope"	a funicular.

Chapter I of this book tells us: "Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood..."	Angela's Ashes (by Frank McCourt).

Stephen Ambrose looked at this president's "Ruin and Recovery, 1973-1990"	Richard Nixon.

In 1958 the theme of the first national week for these places was "Wake up & read!"	libraries.

1960 film that says "Matricide is probably the most unbearable crime of all", especially for "the son who commits it"	Psycho.

The largest in area of the 3	England.

Milvina Dean, who had this distinction among the 2,200 people on board, lived to see the 95th anniv.

in 2007	the youngest person.

Fighting ferociously, you go at it this "& nail"	tooth.

A biography of him is subtitled "Man's Slave Becomes God's Scientist"	George Washington Carver.

This is a rough week for pledges, but if they can make it through, they can be fraternity members	hell week.

Her 6-minute role as Queen Elizabeth in "Shakespeare in Love" was the shortest Oscar-winning role	Judi Dench.

Tony Blair was born there	Scotland.

The U.S.

Senate inquiry noted that the 16 compartments in the Titanic's hull that supposedly were this, weren't	watertight.

It's a signal at night for soldiers to go to their quarters, or an indelible pattern drawn on the skin	a tattoo.

"The Apotheosis of" this English navigator explores "European Mythmaking in the Pacific"	(James) Cook.

Each year, World Space Week is at the start of October, commemorating this 1957 event	the Sputnik launch.

Chris O'Donnell was originally cast as her son in "Prince of Tides", but she chose her real son instead	Barbra Streisand.

The one that is technically a principality	Wales.

The Titanic carried plenty of these, 3,560, but many passengers died wearing them in the 28-degree water	lifejackets.

It's a small porch on the front of the house	a stoop.

He's called a "Rough Stone Rolling" in a 2005 "Cultural Biography of Mormonism's Founder"	Joseph Smith.

In 1999 this country began 3 "golden weeks" of vacation for its vast populace, including one around May Day	China.

Anthony Hopkins said his voice for this movie role was "a combination of Truman Capote and Katharine Hepburn"	Hannibal Lecter.

It has the westernmost territory	Scotland.

You can still see the crane to lower these; the starboard & port ones weighed 9 tons, the center one, 17 tons	anchors.

As seen here, seaplanes have these, or they'd be at the bottom of the sea	pontoons.

"The Corsican" is a diary of his life "In His Own Words"	Napoleon.

Carrie on "Sex and the City" really enjoyed this event that brings ships & thousands of sailors to NYC	Fleet Week.

Schwarzenegger is a Soviet cop teamed with James Belushi's Chicago cop in this action movie	Red Heat.

The Cambrian Mountains cover most of it	Wales.

The ship was so big, communication was by telegraph from this navigating area to the engine room	the bridge.

It's a string or garland of flowers hung in a curve, or to decorate with them	festoon.

As president of this country, Antonio Guzman Blanco had a new capital built in Caracas	Venezuela.

There have been more popes of this name than any other, but the last, number XXIII, was more than 40 years ago	John.

Adjective for handwriting that can actually be read, unlike my doctor's	legible.

His grandfather Erasmus argued in favor of evolution 60 years before he took up the cause himself	(Charles) Darwin.

On his first night taking over "The Daily Show", he informed us, "Craig Kilborn is on assignment in Kuala Lumpur"	Jon Stewart.

He celebrated his 86th birthday at "21" by having his own famous fried chicken delivered to his table in section 21	Colonel Sanders.

The USA's second "drug czar", Bob Martinez had been governor of this state	Florida.

The VI & last pope to have this name reigned from 1963 to 1978	Paul.

Easily duped or conned, perhaps like a seabird	gullible.

This astronomer was born in Pisa, Italy February 15, 1564	Galileo.

A writer, on the U.S.

soccer team's 4 total shots in 3 games: "Four shots?" This Laker "takes that many during a timeout"	Kobe Bryant.

In doro wat, Ethiopian chicken stew, these go in at the end of cooking, so the chicken stew comes first	the eggs.

To supply Coronado's party, Hernando de Alarcon sailed 3 ships up this river in 1540 to where Yuma, Ariz.

is now	the Colorado.

1878 to 1903 was the tenure of the XIII & last pope with this name that's also a sign of the Zodiac	Leo.

You chew with it	mandible.

In 1920, he was named director of the Institute of Theoretical Physics in Copenhagen	(Niels) Bohr.

This Fox-TV cartoon boy: "Just so you don't hear any wild rumors, I'm being indicted for fraud in Australia"	Bart Simpson.

Chicken this "royal" way is served in a rich cream sauce with mushrooms, pimentos, green peppers & sherry	a la king.

The dictator of Paraguay from 1816 to 1840 wasn't called just "El Bueno" but this superlative	El Supremo.

The XII & last pope of this name that sounds like a synonym for "devout" ended his 19-year reign in 1958	Pius.

14-letter adjective for something that can't be wiped out	indestructible.

Until his death in 1907, this chemist headed the Weights & Measures Bureau in St.

Petersburg, Russia	Mendeleev.

This deadpan comic said, "I installed a skylight in my apartment...

The people who live above me are furious"	Steven Wright.

Da, comrade-- a fork pierces the bird, launching a jet of fragrant melted butter in chicken this	chicken Kiev.

Around 1829 this Mexican began calling himself the "Napoleon of the West"	General Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana.

He wasn't the calendar dude, but when he died in 1846, he was the XVI & last pope with this name	Gregory.

Miller's witch-hunting play	The Crucible.

In 1855 Napoleon III "swung" a deal arranging for his appointment as physicist at the Paris Observatory	Jean Foucault.

This Brit comic cross-dresser: "Guns don't kill people, people do...

but monkeys do too, if they've got a gun"	Eddie Izzard.

A rich dish combines chicken strips, spaghetti & a sherry-parmesan cheese cream sauce in chicken this opera star	chicken Tetrazzini.

As Territories Committee chair, this Midwest senator helped draw the borders of 7 territories, including Kansas & Nebraska	Stephen Douglas.

Abraham Lincoln delivered this November 19, 1863; it lasted all of 2 minutes	the Gettysburg Address.

Reed all about it: ARC INLET	clarinet.

Charles Dickens: "Little ____"	Dorrit.

Making one of these with a few people; a frame holds it taut; we'll back it with muslin & fill it with batting	making a quilt.

In 1965 Otis Redding took "Respect" to No.

35; 2 years later, her cover was No.

1	Aretha Franklin.

It's the third word in the first book of the Bible	beginning.

18-year-old Will Shakespeare married her in November 1582; their daughter was born 6 months later	Anne Hathaway.

It's a brass wind instrument: OH OX ASPEN	saxophone.

Theodore Dreiser: "Sister ____"	Carrie.

Celebrating January 6, the Feast of this, commemorating the day the Magi arrived to honor the Christ Child	the Epiphany.

A No.

1 hit for The Eurythmics in 1983, "Sweet Dreams" was covered in '95 by this goth rocker, the former Brian Warner	Marilyn Manson.

2-word term for a tuxedo	dinner jacket.

He stepped out of Northwest Airlines Flight 305 on November 24, 1971, & hasn't been seen since	D.B.

Cooper.

Blow in & out: NO CHAIR MA	harmonica.

George Bernard Shaw: "Major ____"	Barbara.

Heading to Valparaiso, a seaport in this South American country	Chile.

This Van Halen frontman re-did Louis Prima's "Just A Gigolo" in 1985	David Lee Roth.

Another word for entrails or viscera (sorry, mealtime America)	innards.

The start of his reign in Spain falls mainly on the 22nd of November, 1975	(King) Juan Carlos.

Oh, it bellows: RANCID COO	accordion.

Nietzsche: "Thus Spoke ____"	Zarathustra.

Learning this Bantu language whose name comes from a word meaning "of the coast"	Swahili.

In 1979 this Sex Pistols bassist did "My Way", his way	Sid Vicious.

It's the type of sail seen here in red, white & blue	the spinnaker.

In Nov.

1922, after years of searching, Lord Carnarvon & Howard Carter made this discovery	Tutankhamen's tomb.

Pear-shaped? Abso-lute-ly: NIL NOMAD	mandolin.

Alexander Solzhenitsyn: "One Day in the Life of ____ ____"	Ivan Denisovich.

Giving a room visual interest with this trim aka a dado rail; it protects plaster walls from the item in its name	a chair rail.

"Are We Not Men?  We Are" this '80s group who covered the Stones' "Satisfaction"	Devo.

An indirect intimation about a person of a disparaging or derogatory nature	innuendo.

Check out the Kokugikan Sumo Budokan Arena in this capital	Tokyo.

Kobe called it "idiotic criticism" that he hadn't (until 2009) won an NBA title without this teammate	Shaquille O'Neal.

Go to logcabinsyrups.com & you'll immediately see a stack of them	pancakes.

As a boy Bolivia's president Evo Morales herded these pack animals	llamas.

This bird was said to embalm the ashes of its predecessor & then fly to Heliopolis	the phoenix.

It's the smallest armed service of the United States	the Coast Guard.

This capital lies on the north coast of West Java at the mouth of the Liwung River	Jakarta.

A wizard at passing the ball, this Laker is the NBA's all-time leader in assists per game	Magic Johnson.

They're the Asian restaurant items seen here	pot stickers.

Alex Salmond, first minister of this country, wants to take it out of the United Kingdom	Scotland.

Marco Polo told us of this 3-letter bird that could carry an elephant in its claws	the roc.

A Greek word for "poppy" gives us the name of this analgesic, an alkaloid of opium	codeine.

Once the capital of the French protectorate of Tonkin, it's now the capital of an entire country	Hanoi (Vietnam).

This Laker giant was nicknamed "The Big Dipper" for his habit of dipping his head to fit through doorways	Wilt Chamberlain.

Made with cornmeal, it comes out of the oven so soft you have to eat it with the utensil in its name	spoon bread.

4 times married, ex-German leader Gerhard Schroeder is aka Audi Man, for the car's symbol of 4 of these	rings.

The word "panic" comes from the name of a Greek god who was this type of creature	a satyr.

It's a coop for sheep or pigeons	a cote.

Inhabitants of this Armenian capital can see Mount Ararat, which is 35 miles to the south in Turkey	Yerevan.

This Hall-of-Fame guard & former Lakers GM is said to be the model for the player depicted in the NBA's logo	Jerry West.

Orville Redenbacher sells this sweet & salty treat as well as its more famous cousin	kettle corn.

The U.N.

ties of this Secretary-General date back to 1975, when he was a South Korean diplomat	Ban Ki-moon.

This winged creature sprang from the blood of Medusa after Perseus beheaded her	Pegasus.

In 2009 Paul McCartney headlined this music fest near Palm Springs, California	Coachella.

The name of this capital is Mongol for "City of the Red Hero"	Ulan Bator.

This flashy Lakers forward was nicknamed "Big Game" for his clutch playoff performances	James Worthy.

Bobby Flay's recipe for this includes as special equipment a rod to skewer the bird with	rotisserie chicken.

In 2008 he succeeded his close ally Vladimir Putin as Russia's president	Medvedev.

If you know that a Kirin is the Japanese type of this mythological creature, pour yourself a beer	unicorn.

It's an exclusive group or clique	a coterie.

He was the last sitting president to run for re-election & finish third in the Electoral College	William Howard Taft.

The prospect of an endless lawsuit winding through generations leaves a "bleak" vision	Bleak House.

While Harvard has the Crimson, this university has the Crimson Tide	Alabama.

Alberto Gonzales & Robert F.

Kennedy both held this cabinet position	Attorney General.

The Battle of Stalingrad	World War II.

Leading Off, Faces in the Crowd, Scorecard	Sports Illustrated.

Everyone has one: POV	a point of view.

That wedding gown, that faded gown--I cannot get it, or poor Miss Havisham, out of my head	Great Expectations.

Penn State's teams, they were named partly for a mountain & partly for a creature that could defeat Princeton's Tigers	the Nittany Lions.

In 1775 the Continental Congress appointed man of letters Benjamin Franklin to this job	postmaster general.

Quang Tri City; the cavalry was sent!	the Vietnam War.

Goings on About Town, The Talk of the Town, The Critics	The New Yorker.

On some forms & applications: DOB	date of birth.

Bill was mean to his dog, Bull's Eye, then he killed Nancy...

& so, I ran, but he kept gaining on me...	Oliver Twist.

You could say these athletes at UNLV aren't "without a cause"	the (Runnin') Rebels.

It's the rank just below (the very model of a modern) major general	brigadier general.

Quebec &, a year later, Trenton	the Revolutionary War.

Agenda, Fairground, Fanfair	Vanity Fair.

A religious group: LDS	Latter Day Saints.

Oh no, it's the cruel headmaster of Salem House, Mr.

Creakle, & his peg leg buddy, Tungay--will this never end?!	David Copperfield.

Worn by the National College football champions for 1993 & 1999, this team's logo is seen here	the (Florida State) Seminoles.

The U.N.'s website says this job is "a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor"	the Secretary-General.

No one enjoyed the portions at Pork Chop Hill	the Korean War.

Star Tracks, Scoop, Chatter	People.

For tax purposes, the total amount you earned less deductions: AGI	adjusted gross income.

It's no "mystery" why John Jasper haunts me--his fingers have knives on them!	The Mystery of Edwin Drood.

They're the sports teams of Fresno State as well as Georgia	the Bulldogs.

In 1870 Congress created this position to direct the Marine Hospital Service	the Surgeon General.

Let me take you down, 'cause we're going to...

Bosworth Field	the War of the Roses.

Your Shot, Where in the World?, Visions of Earth	National Geographic.

Organization founded by Carrie Chapman Catt in 1920: LWV	the League of Women Voters.

(Alex stands at the Western Wall in Jerusalem.) The Western Wall is the only remnant of a retaining wall that was built to support the Temple Mount; now tradition says this mount was Moriah, the site where this patriarch prepared to sacrifice his son	Abraham.

"Jingle All the Way", "So I Married an Axe Murderer" (plus 153 episodes of "SNL")	Phil Hartman.

"Ariel", "Portnoy's Complaint" & this 1969 mob novel were all written partly in Yaddo in Upstate N.Y.	The Godfather.

Choline may help adult brains grow; one of these breakfast items has about a third of your RDA--want an omelette?	an egg.

Instead of counties, this state has boroughs (or is it brrr-oughs?)	Alaska.

15th century Pope Innocent VIII "The Honest" was the first pope to publicly admit having these	children.

Ezra was the leader of the Jews who returned from this land, by whose waters they had sat down & wept	Babylon.

"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum", "It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World" (plus his own 1955-59 TV show)	Phil Silvers.

Proceeds from "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" helped him start a residency program on Long Island	Edward Albee.

A study of 3,500 Japanese men's brains found those who did this in moderation aged better than those who didn't	drank alcohol.

This state capital is located on the Merrimack River about 15 miles north of Manchester	Concord.

The Battle of Missionary Ridge was a chief encounter of the 1863 battle of this southeastern city	Chattanooga.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew stands on the bank of the Jordan River in Israel.)  As depicted in art, after parting the River Jordan with his cloak, this biblical prophet followed a chariot of fire into Heaven	Elijah.

"Buster", "Hook", "The Genesis Concert Movie"	Phil Collins.

The patronage of Mabel Dodge Luhan made an artists' magnet of this town 55 miles from Santa Fe	Taos, New Mexico.

A Boston study found doing this for 40 minutes a day builds up the cerebral cortex; monks must be really smart!	meditate.

Tributaries of this Mississippi tributary include the Cheyenne, James & Platte	the Missouri.

The Chinese call these kuaizi	chopsticks.

It was the wealthiest Greek city in Paul's time; he founded a church there & wrote 2 letters to its Christians	Corinth.

"Doubt", "Capote"	Philip Seymour Hoffman.

The colony bearing this single name features a barn poet Edna built from a Sears kit	Millay.

Excess weight can interfere with this hormone, raising risk of diabetes & impairing brain function--so hit the gym, Einstein	insulin.

The Houston ship channel flows into this bay that shares its name with a city	Galveston Bay.

Don't squawk if you're accused of having illegible handwriting, aka this	chicken scratches.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reads the clue from a church in Galilee in northern Israel.)  This Italian Franciscan church is dedicated to these 9 assertions Jesus made nearby about the blessed	the Beatitudes.

As a director: "The Right Stuff", "Invasion of the Body Snatchers"	Philip Kaufman.

Around 1912, 2 painters from the Art Institute of this city founded the Ox-Bow Institute in Saugatuck, Mich.	Chicago.

A U.

of California study found that listening to the too many notes in this guy's sonatas raised IQ scores 8-9 points	Mozart.

This N.C.

peak, the highest east of the Mississippi, was named for the man who surveyed it, died on it & is buried at the top	Mt.

Mitchell.

Specific 5-letter term for the block of wood you wedge under the wheels when jacking up a car	chock.

At the University of Bonn in 1836, he was wounded in a duel with a member of an aristocratic Prussian fraternity	Karl Marx.

The Jack Daniel's distillery is in Lynchburg in this state	Tennessee.

Willis's Snapples and Cran-apples	Bruce's juices.

The dad of this First Gulf War general was a N.J.

State Police bigwig & worked the Lindbergh kidnapping case	(Norman) Schwarzkopf.

It was introduced as a way to "put 1,000 songs in your pocket"	iPod.

Lions don't like to attack ostriches because the big birds do this & can even kill the king of beasts this way	kick.

It's No.

1, & no, you don't get a hint	the.

When Jimi Hendrix played "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Woodstock, he was strumming in this state	New York.

Ashton's meat sellers	Kutcher's butchers.

A sample of this artist's work is seen here	(Norman) Rockwell.

There are websites devoted to injuries suffered by its users, such as pulled muscles & bloodied hands	Wii.

This forward from French Lick, Indiana was NBA MVP 3 times in the 1980s	Larry Bird.

This No.

30 must be obeyed	she.

The Trinity site in this state was the location of the USA's first atomic explosion	New Mexico.

Cattrall's rooms for hot, sweaty workouts	Kim's gyms.

In 1981 this "All in the Family" producer co-founded People for the American Way	Norman Lear.

This has been banned in Thailand, Turkey, Pakistan & Iran	YouTube.

This bird term for pro-war politicians was popular in the period leading up to the War of 1812	hawks.

Self-congratulations, egotists!  This word made it all the way to No.

10	I.

The Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport is in this state	Rhode Island.

Amanda's avenues	Peet's streets.

Think positively! You'll know this man who wrote the newspaper column "Confident Living"	(Norman Vincent) Peale.

Its name was reportedly inspired by a line from "2001: A Space Odyssey"	iPod.

It's the color in the name of New Hampshire's state bird, a finch, & a state flower, a lilac	purple.

No.

2, this verb form is a homophone of a letter of the alphabet	be.

"Where The Columbines Grow" is its official state song	Colorado.

Lauer's chiropterans	Matt's bats.

1968 "The Armies of the Night" won him a Pulitzer & the National Book Award	Norman Mailer.

Britain's Prince William got one last Christmas & Queen Elizabeth promptly commandeered it	Wii.

Like its relative the peacock, the Argus type of this bird has "eyes" in its elaborate tail feathers	the pheasant.

Title of the Beatles song that tells us "life is very short"--5 words: Nos.

27, 53, 87, 11, 43	"We Can Work It Out".

In 1989 this son of Jamaican immigrants became Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff	(Colin) Powell.

When this product was introduced in 1972, it was said to have a full "quarter mile" of fun shot out of a can	Silly String.

This author wrote of Fangorn Forest, named for the oldest of the Ents-or was the Ent named for the forest?	Tolkien.

A type of fish, or to sit on an elevated platform	perch.

The Lone Ranger could tell you this precious metal is the best conductor of electricity among metals	silver.

The Philadelphia Orchestra played Beethoven's "Pastoral Symphony" for this 1940 Disney film	Fantasia.

If you don't know he was made commander of the 2nd Armored Tank Division in April 1941, I'll slap you silly	(George) Patton.

In the 1630s it was a backup bow & arrow part; today it means backup on a sports team	second string.

In this Herman Wouk tale, Pug Henry is an advisor to FDR prior to the attack on Pearl Harbor	The Winds of War.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the Gathering of Nations.) The Colorado nonprofit Hawkquest doesn't just protect hawks; they also help these falcons, whose name means "wandering"	peregrine.

(Jon of the Clue Crew lights up a bulb by touching wires to its terminals.) It's a series of electrical components that form a conducting path	a circuit.

This Russian director's Mexico footage was compiled as "Mexican Symphony" in 1941	(Sergey) Eisenstein.

We shall return to this man who graduated from West Point in 1903 with the highest honors in his class	Doug MacArthur.

To make this candy, put a string in a glass of sugar & water that was boiled to a syrup & let stand for a week	rock candy.

His play "Under Milk Wood", about the inhabitants of a Welsh seaside town, was published posthumously	Dylan Thomas.

Russian for "rebuilding", this term was first used by Gorbachev in the mid-1980s	perestroika.

Unlike most nonmetals, this element with the symbol B is a workable conductor	boron.

In 1998's "Serengeti Symphony", the title nature reserve in this country is shown with only music & natural sound	Tanzania.

A 10-man, 22-ton "infantry fighting vehicle" named for this general has a 2-man turret & a 25mm cannon	(Omar) Bradley.

According to Bud Collins' "Encyclopedia of Modern Tennis", the best of this string material comes from cows	gut.

The line "O wild west wind, thou breath of autumn's being" starts an 1819 ode by this man	Percy Shelley.

This daughter of Zeus & Demeter made regular trips to Hades	Persephone.

It's the term for material that conducts at high temperatures & insulates at low temperatures	a semiconductor.

This 1922 film seen here was subtitled "A Symphony of Horror"	Nosferatu.

In 1864 Democrats nominated this Union general for president, though he repudiated their platform	George McClellan.

The hope behind String Theory is that it will result in this, sometimes shortened to "T.O.E."	the theory of everything.

This Frost poem ends with "And miles to go before I sleep,  And miles to go before I sleep"	"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening".

11-letter word for the sac containing the heart	pericardium.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew powers a fan by putting one terminal into a beaker of saltwater.) Current that will power the fan is carried by ions rather than free electrons in the saltwater, which is one of these conducting liquids	an electrolyte.

The 1934 drama "The Unfinished Symphony" was director Anthony Asquith's tribute to this Austrian composer	Shubert.

On May 15, 1768 France bought this island from Genoa for 2 million livres	Corsica.

Of Hawaii's 8 main islands, this one receives the lion's share of the tourist dollars	Oahu.

Cash, Depp	Johnny.

The 1719 1st edition told of him "having been cast on shore by shipwreck, wherein all...

men perished but himself"	Robinson Crusoe.

Edwin Budding adapted a rotary shearer used to remove excess fibers from carpets into this outdoor tool	the lawnmower.

In 1468 this teen was recognized as heiress to the throne of Castile	Queen Isabella.

An intelligent beginning	a smart start.

When the Russians owned Alaska, they referred to this tall peak as Bolshaya Gora	Mt.

McKinley.

Bakula, Wolf	Scott.

Even the epilogue is lengthy in this 1869 Tolstoy epic; it comes out in 2 parts &, in our copy, is 105 pages long	War and Peace.

In 1948 scientists at Bristol-Meyers "buffered" this medicine for the first time	aspirin.

She was a teenage farm girl when she beat the famous marksman Frank Butler in an 1870s shooting match	Annie Oakley.

A more obese baseball slugger	a fatter batter.

This river begins in Colorado & empties into the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville, Texas	Rio Grande.

Carey, Bledsoe	Drew.

This 1939 Steinbeck novel helped publicize the plight of Dust Bowl refugees	The Grapes of Wrath.

Lawrence Sperry used the gyroscope his dad developed in this device that keeps planes on course without human aid	autopilot.

In the 1850s this future sculptor failed the Ecole des Beaux-Arts entrance exam 3 times (think about it)	Rodin.

A wealthy sorceress	a rich witch.

Florida's panhandle borders these 2 states	Alabama and Georgia.

Lillard, Modine	Matthew.

Chapter 10 of this 1960 novel begins, "Atticus was feeble: he was nearly fifty"	To Kill a Mockingbird.

In 1882 Schuyler Wheeler put a propellor on the shaft of an electric motor & created this--how cool!	a fan.

Betrothed as a teen to her creepy cousin in 1744, she later became a "Great" empress of Russia	Catherine the Great.

Written text of a movie about an underground burial chamber	a crypt script.

This large lake on the New York-Vermont border is Vermont's lowest point	Lake Champlain.

Connelly, Garner, Holliday	Jennifer.

Published in 1949, this futuristic tale is set in Oceania, a few years before you were born	1984.

James Fergason invented this type of "display" that found an early use in calculators	LCD (or Liquid Crystal Display).

Apprenticed to a British shipowner as a teen in the 1740s, he became one of the great explorers of the Pacific	Captain Cook.

Voraciously eat an "all-purpose" baking ingredient	devour flour.

Of particular interest to the NRA is the amendment that allows us "to keep & bear" these	arms.

Mia Hamm, Brandi Chastain & their 9 teammates on the field	soccer.

Because they develop from a single ovum, this variety of twins has the same genetic makeup	identical.

This math term comes from the Latin frangere, "to break"	fraction.

A Vacherin dessert features this crisp concoction of beaten egg whites & sugar	meringue.

It's the common operation to remove 2 small oval masses of tissue at the back of the mouth	a tonsillectomy.

Under the 5th Amendment, 1 of the 3 things that no person shall be deprived of "without due process of law"	life (or liberty or property).

Sheryl Swoopes, Lisa Leslie & their 3 teammates on the floor	basketball.

Genes that affect hereditary traits are called alleles & are either "dominant" or this	recessive.

This synonym for "room" can precede music & maid	chamber.

NYC sushi chef Masa Takayama has paid more than $120 a pound for this fish--a bit pricier than Star-Kist's	tuna.

A rhytidectomy removes these surgically; botox takes them out another way	wrinkles.

The 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery, was ratified in this year	1865.

Misty May & Kerri Walsh	beach volleyball.

Since the 1980s this hormone used by diabetics has been produced by genetically engineered bacteria	insulin.

The name of this 6-pointed star comes from the Greek for "six" & "letter"	a hexagram.

This word for a French stew is pronounced the same as a pasta sauce brand	ragout.

A lobectomy removes one of the 5 lobes of the lungs; a lobotomy takes out part of this organ	the brain.

The 24th Amendment says you don't have to pay this type of tax, or any other in order to vote	poll.

Mohini Bhardwaj, Courtney Kupets & their 4 teammates	gymnastics.

A pair of chromosomes with this 2-letter designation makes a woman a woman	XX.

The name of this African equine comes from the Portuguese for "wild ass"	a zebra.

A company at Union Wharf in Portland ships all kinds of seafood, but is called "Maine" this creature "Direct"	Lobster.

A keratotomy is an incision of this eye part; a keratectomy removes part of it	the cornea.

Decade when the 27th & last amendment, having to do with pay raises in Congress, took effect	the 1990s.

Lisa Fernandez, Jennie Finch & their 7 teammates on the field	softball.

Named for a German neuropathologist, this memory loss disease may be caused by a gene on chromosome 21	Alzheimer's disease.

This cutting implement has the same name as a type of dive & a kind of trailer-truck accident	a jackknife.

En croute, as in salmon en croute, is French for "in" this, also found on toast	crust.

The embolus removed from an artery in an embolectomy is usually one of these obstructions	a (blood) clot.

To trek through its Khumbu Icefall, Lhotse Face & South Col, your team needs a $70,000 permit from Nepal's government	Mount Everest.

Fife, Rubble, Miller	Barney.

State of matter a substance is in after it's gone through evaporation	gaseous.

In April of 1990 she began her worldwide "Blond Ambition" tour to promote her CD "I'm Breathless"	Madonna.

He's got the building wired for "current" affairs	an electrician.

A 4-legged one may be a vixen; a 2-legged one may be a vixen, too	a fox.

I'm boiling these to mix with red cabbage; it's too darn hot to roast them on an open fire	chestnuts.

Foehn, Zephyr, Simoom	winds.

Number of sides on a honeycomb cell or on a snowflake	6.

His "Doggystyle" CD was the first debut album ever to enter the Billboard charts at No.

1	Snoop Doggy Dogg.

The current affairs this person deals with are labelled H & C	the plumber.

In a 1979 film, Dudley Moore gives her a rating of 11 on a scale of 1-10	Bo Derek.

Don't be intimidated by the skewers; I'll use them on the marinated lamb to make this	shish kabob.

Shirt, kite, donkey	(things with) tails.

We wouldn't fib, your fibula runs parallel with this bone	your tibia.

(Hi.

I am Chris Hardwick.)  In April 1987 MTV premiered the video show "Headbanger's Ball" for devotees of this type of music	heavy metal.

A Fats Waller is a pianist & this "waller" is an installer of plasterboard	a drywaller.

In boxing, it's when you've fallen & you can't get up	a knockout.

I'm making passover breakfast fun by using this unleavened bread in a version of French toast	matzah.

Roofs, halos, quantum mechanics	things that are over my head.

A poison in pure form, this element used as a germicide on cuts has a chemical symbol that's a pronoun	iodine.

This Seattle grunge band backed Neil Young on his "Mirror Ball" CD	Pearl Jam.

He'll get you stoned or brickworked, & maybe even teach you a secret handshake	a mason.

Psalm 8 declares, "Out of the mouth of" these "and sucklings hast thou ordained strength"	babes.

I'm sauteeing this organ meat in butter & lemon juice, as you'd know, if you had any	brains.

Purpose of the structures seen here: [1] [2] [3]	astronomy (or observatories).

French mathematician who devised the plotting system that uses coordinates named for him	Rene Descartes.

He recorded his 1982 hit album, "Nebraska", as a series of demos on a 4-track machine at home	Bruce Springsteen.

A teacher could handle this, the moving of earth to form a smooth surface for a roadway	a grader.

An explosive device, a stunning revelation, or a stunning blonde	a bombshell.

This clear meat soup will be finished in a jiffy; actually, "finished" is what its name means	a consomm.

Harry Angstrom's house burns to the ground in this author's 1971 novel "Rabbit Redux"	(John) Updike.

Summer is the time for Whatever Week, a celebration of the Kennebec River in this state capital	Augusta.

Ralph Macchio's love interest in "The Karate Kid", she took a darker turn in "Leaving Las Vegas"	Elisabeth Shue.

Diamond deposit; it ain't yours! (4)	mine.

Menelaus not only wanted this wife back, but the treasure Paris stole along with her	Helen.

Gwilym is the Welsh form of this name that's been popular in England for centuries	William.

In this Anne Tyler novel, a travel writer breaks his leg & moves into his siblings' home	The Accidental Tourist.

Parson's Way, a scenic walkway in Kennebunkport, passes near this former president's home, Walker's Point	(George Herbert Walker) Bush.

Her first name honors the playwriting partner of Russel Crouse, her father	Lindsey Crouse.

When it's "praying", it's preying (6)	mantis.

This god zapped Salmoneus into oblivion for trying to imitate his thunder & lightning	Zeus.

John David Joyce set a Guinness record by doing this continuously in a hammock for 240 hours	rocking (or swinging).

The Red Cloud, Nebraska home seen here was the model for Antonia's home in a novel by this author:	Willa Cather.

Maine is so famous for these berries that the town of Machias honors them with a festival	blueberries.

Tamara Dobson fought drugs as "Cleopatra Jones" in 1973, 10 years after this woman was "Cleopatra"	Liz Taylor.

Actor Fredric's month (5)	March.

This war god wasn't too successful in battle; he was once captured & stuck in a jar for 13 months	Ares.

Of a pogo stick injury, a dense winter fog or the bite of a comic strip possum, what a pogonip is	a dense winter fog.

In the novel by Isabel Allende, Clara del Valle Trueba shares a house with these title entities	the Spirits.

A national wildlife refuge near Kittery is named for this biologist who wrote "Silent Spring"	Rachel Carson.

This star brought "Beaches" & "For the Boys" to the screen through her All Girl Productions	Bette Midler.

Stubborn slippers (5)	mules.

This underworld kingpin had a helmet that made him invisible; after all, his name means "the unseen"	Hades.

2 of the 4 actors who earned 1974 Oscar nominations for "The Godfather Part II"; one of them won	(2 of) Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, Michael V.

Gazzo, & Lee Strasberg.

In this novel by John Kennedy Toole, Ignatius J.

Reilly lives with his mother in her New Orleans home	The Confederacy of Dunces.

It's the only National Park in all of New England	Acadia.

This star seen here in a 1953 film left movies in 1958 for her own TV "Show":  "Hi, what's your name?" "I'm Lorlene."	Donna Reed.

Eggplant entree, in Greece (6)	musaka.

Atalanta excelled in this blood sport of which Artemis was goddess	hunting.

Armenia is bordered by this other "A" country on the East & on the Southwest	Azerbaijan.

19th century novelist Jose Rizal was a hero of this country's independence movement	the Philippines.

This large African desert is home to 2 million people, about as many as Utah	Sahara.

It loves to swim, but this bird seen here is one of the few that do not fly	Penguin.

"Gimme a Break, Gimme a Break, Break Me Off a Piece" of this candy bar	Kit Kat.

Gesundheit, meaning "health", is what Germans say instead of "bless you" when you do this	Sneeze.

On Saturday morning, this Disney hero attends Prometheus Academy	Hercules.

A shortened form of Christmas is spelled this way	Xmas.

This land that's north of England has odd place names lile Loch Lochy & Loch Oich	Scotland.

Seen here, the great horned type of this bird is found from Alaska to South America	Owl.

"The Milk Chocolate Melts in Your Mouth -- not in Your Hand"	M&M's.

The food many Germans like best is wurst, which are these hot-dog-shaped meat treats	Sausages.

The monster seen here (Godzilla) originally appeared in movies from this country	Japan.

High-energy radiation used to take a picture of your insides	X-rays.

The Forbidden City is at the heart of this capital of China, also called Peking	Beijing.

The largest bird in the world, this one, seen here, is also the fastest on land	Ostrich.

"The Great American Chocolate Bar"	Hershey's.

Germans decorate Christmas trees with silvery strings & call it the "hair" of these heavenly beings	Angels.

This "Funnie" middle school student got his first movie in March 1999	Doug.

Breastplated "Warrior Princess" played by Lucy Lawless	Xena.

To get from Africa to Arabia, you cross (or part) this sea that has a colorful name	Red Sea.

The colorful macaw variety of this bird is seen here	Parrot.

"4 Out of 5 Dentists Surveyed Recommend Sugarless Gum for their Patients who Chew Gum"	Trident.

From 1949 to 1990 Germany was split into 2 countries, which were called this	East & West Germany.

Ms.

Frizzle, a science teacher, drives this title vehicle	The Magic School Bus.

A percussion instrument played with small mallets	Xylophone.

In 1999 all of Nunavut became a territory in this country, the second largest in area in the world	Canada.

A national symbol, this endangered bird has been making a comeback in recent years	Bald eagle.

"Packed with Peanuts", it "Really Satisfies"	Snickers.

A rathaus isn't as bad as it sounds: it's this "hall" where the mayor might work	City hall.

Bubbles, Blossom & Buttercup make up this group devoted to "Saving the Day Before Bedtime"	The Powerpuff Girls.

A trademarked name, it's often used as a synonym for a photocopy	Xerox.

On April 12, 1861 Confederate general Beauregard attacked this fort in Charleston Harbor	Fort Sumter.

Romanian developed from this language of the ancient Romans	Latin.

Simple Simon met him "going to the fair"	A pieman.

Take a trolley to tour the National Cathedral, Georgetown & the Smithsonian in this city	Washington, D.C..

This German composer's 5th Symphony in C Minor has a famous opening	Ludwig van Beethoven.

2 by 2 the animals were put on this "ark"	Noah's Ark.

In his second inaugural address, he said about slavery, "All know that this...was, somehow, the cause of the war"	Abraham Lincoln.

Athenians speak the Attic dialect of this language	Greek.

One little pig "went to market"; one little pig "stayed at home"; one little pig ate this meat	Roast beef.

A theme park in Brainerd, Minnesota welcomes you with a 26-foot-tall statue of this lumberjack	Paul Bunyan.

Escamillo is a toreador in "Carmen", an opera set in this European country	Spain.

This "apple" is at the front of men's throats	Adam's apple.

The greatest battle fought in the Western Hemisphere has the "address" of this small Pennsylvania town	Gettysburg.

Most of the classes in Quebec schools are taught in this language	French.

Did you ever see such a thing in your life?  The farmer's wife cut off their tails "with a carving knife"	Three Blind Mice.

Start early; the 4 presidents sculpted on this mountain are best viewed in morning light	Mount Rushmore.

The music of this Tchaikovsky "Suite" comes from his 1892 ballet, popular at Christmas	"The Nutcracker".

Ben Franklin used a pen name to publish this almanac from 1732 to 1757	Poor Richard's Almanack.

When this general accepted Robert E.

Lee's surrender at Appomattox, he was wearing a mud-splattered private's coat	Ulysses S.

Grant.

Javanese is the native language of about 60 million people on the island of Java in this country	Indonesia.

"Hey Diddle, Diddle!"  After the little dog laughed, these 2 things ran off together	Dish & spoon.

The Congress Street Bridge is where Bostonians recreate this historic event every December	Boston Tea Party.

Prokofiev wrote a famous orchestra piece called "Peter and" this animal	The wolf.

The Battle of the Little Bighorn, won by the Sioux, also has this "final" name	Custer's Last Stand.

In February 1861 6 Southern states founded the Confederate States of America & elected him president	Jefferson Davis.

Most of the people of Brazil speak this official language	Portuguese.

It's what Peter, Peter ate; later he kept his wife in the shell of one	Pumpkin.

This oldest national park has entrances in Wyoming & Montana	Yellowstone.

This Austrian child prodigy began composing minuets when he was only 5	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.

This "heel" is named for thr only place a famous Greek warrior could be wounded	Achilles' heel.

In the early 1800s, this man's empire included the duchy of Warsaw, the kingdom of Naples & Spain	Napoleon.

This play opens on the battlements of the castle at Elsinore as Barnardo asks, "who's there?"	Hamlet.

He started a book business from his home in 1873; his son William joined forces with G.

Clifford Noble in 1917	(Charles M.) Barnes.

Peter, Peter was an eater of this; he kept his wife in its shell	pumpkin.

This largest Alaskan city lies at the head of cook inlet on the Kenai peninsula	Anchorage.

This '60s "Nights in White Satin" band has another color in its name	Moody Blues.

In Portuguese, domingo is this day of the week	Sunday.

"Othello" opens with Roderigo addressing this villain: "Tush, never tell me; I take it much unkindly"	Iago.

In 1997 Tyco International moved to this U.K.

territory in the Atlantic for tax purposes	Bermuda.

"I had a little hobby-horse and it was dapple gray; its head was made of pea-straw, its tail was made of" this	hay.

Big ships must pass through Admiralty Inlet to enter or leave this Washington State sound	Puget Sound.

1974's "Mandy" was his first Top 40 hit--& it reached No.1	Barry Manilow.

In French, l'oiseau is this; it sports les plumes	a bird.

The chorus of "Romeo & Juliet" tells us it's in this city "where we lay our scene"	Verona.

An Italian clothier is known as the United Colors of this	Benetton.

In a counting nursery rhyme, they were "a-courting", "in the kitchen" & "a-waiting"	maids.

Faxa Bay in the North Atlantic is between this country's Snaefells & Reykjanes peninsulas	Iceland.

This singer of "Jack & Diane" had to fight to record under his own name	John Mellencamp.

If Popeye spoke Hebrew he'd ask for tered, this	spinach.

Completes the opening sentence "Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of..."	York.

In 1851 this company started using a logo with a man in the moon & 13 stars; now it uses its initials	Proctor & Gamble.

While "January brings the snow", "may brings flocks of pretty" these, "skipping by their fleecy dams"	lambs.

This Chilean city whose name means "valley of paradise" lies on a wide inlet of the Pacific	Valparaiso.

In the '90s it was "Enter Sandman" with this group	Metallica.

Tredici is Italian for this symbol of bad luck	thirteen.

This play opens most dramatically with thunder & lightning.

A ship is seen.

Then a cry of "bos'n!"	The Tempest.

In 1927 this brand name first appeared on a Sears washing machine	Kenmore.

"Here we go round" this bush "on a cold and frosty morning"	the mulberry bush.

North Carolina's Albemarle Sound is no deeper than 25 feet & is protected from the Atlantic by this island chain	the Outer Banks.

In the 2000s "Makes Me Wonder" got this group noticed	Maroon 5.

In German, berg is this topographical feature on a map	a mountain.

In December 1974 this former New York governor was sworn in as Vice President	Rockefeller.

If you can't stand the heat, there's always this raw dish that includes onions, capers, egg yolks & beef tenderloin	steak tartare.

The British A22 Mark IV tank carried a 75-millimeter gun & this prime minister's name	Churchill.

Able to lift 850 times its own weight, the strongest animal is the rhinoceros type of this insect	beetle.

Blair Underwood as President Elias Martinez	The Event.

Number of "beers on the wall" at the beginning of the song	ninety-nine.

In 1951 he told a joint session of congress that he "tried to do his duty as god gave him the light to see that duty"	(Douglas) McArthur.

A New England boiled dinner is traditionally made with this cured deli meat	corned beef.

Ships in the U.S.

Navy's Casablanca class of "escort" these were smaller than their big cousins like the Lexington	aircraft carriers.

Dennis Haysbert & D.B.

Woodside as David & Wayne Palmer, respectively	24.

"U" know it means not deliberate; I'm sorry, that slip of the tongue was completely this	unintentional.

This political party founded around 1789 stood for a strong central government	the Federalists.

A New York steak is also known as this alliterative steak	strip steak.

Today, this Japanese car company makes the galant; in WWII, it was better known for its A6M "Zero" fighter	Mitsubishi.

Relative to the size of the bird, this flightless New Zealand denizen has the largest egg	the kiwi.

Fred Armisen as Barack Obama	Saturday Night Live.

It's the church festival on March 25 commemorating what Gabriel told Mary	the annunciation.

His foes said that in 1877 he agreed to withdraw remaining federal troops from the south in return for electoral support	(Rutherford B.) Hayes.

The second word in the French name of this boneless steak means "dainty"	filet mignon.

It was the alphanumeric designation of the U.S.

Army's Garand rifle	the M1.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows a bunch of jar-preserved specimens.)  Butterflies, centipedes, scorpions, spiders, crabs, lobsters--these & millions of other creepy crawlers belong to this phylum that makes up more than 80% of all animal species, from the Greek for "joint foot"	arthropod.

On Fox, Patricia Wettig as Caroline Reynolds	Prison Break.

Adjective preceding the railroad completed in 1869	transcontinental.

In 1917 the U.S.

purchased the islands of St.

Croix, St.

John & St.

Thomas from this country for $25 million	Denmark.

To make this dish, beef is topped with pate de foie gras & a mushroom paste before it's wrapped in pastry & cooked	beef Wellington.

"Hefty" nickname of the second & last atomic bomb used during the war	Fat Man.

The April 2009 issue of Science magazine reported that cows were the first livestock animal to have this "mapped"	their genome.

Mary McDonnell as Laura Roslin	Battlestar Galactica.

Inopportune or untimely, like the title "woman" in a Dominick Dunne novel	inconvenient.

When asked for a home address in "The Blues Bros." Elwood gives 1060 W.

Addison St., the home of this facility	Wrigley Field.

In May 1999 her Warners talk show was hit with a $2.5 million judgment after one guest killed another	Jenny Jones.

In 1791 this Treasury Secretary issued his "Report On Manufactures", a critique of American industry	Alexander Hamilton.

In NYC June 14, 1999 it was "Dead Man Riding", as it took hours to notice a passenger on one of these wasn't just sleeping	Subway.

Only the adelie & emperor species of this bird actually breed in Antarctica	Penguin.

This tribe that gives the book its English name is only mentioned in one passage	Levites.

Sir Walter's saucepans	Scott's pots.

You can tour the Warner Bros.

lot online, or in person in this San Fernando Valley city	Burbank.

When West Virginia became a state in 1863, Wheeling was its capital; this city became the permanent capital in 1885	Charleston.

Willie, the animal Wiarton, Canada used for this celebration, died Jan.

31, 1999, 2 days before his next appearance	Groundhog Day.

This bird seen here is the provincial bird of Prince Edward Island	Blue jay.

God bans mean pranks in 19:14, "Thou shalt not...

put a stumbling block before" these people	The blind.

Stoker's sheeplings	Bram's lambs.

Former mortuary entrepreneur Steve Ross negotiated Warners' 1989 merger with this publisher	Time.

In 1698, after an absence of 15 years, he returned to the colony named for his father	William Penn.

When Dallas sent out this annual tax form to 13,000 city employees, it marked them dead	W-2.

The racing homer breed of this domestic bird was developed in Belgium, the traditional home of the sport	Pigeon.

Chapters 4, 6, 8 & 12 begin, "And the Lord spake unto" him	Moses.

Spillane's love-bites	Mickey's hickeys.

Movies found their voice in this 1927 Warner Bros.

film	The Jazz Singer.

On Aug.

2, 1826 at Boston's Faneuil Hall, this great orator delivered a eulogy on Jefferson & Adams	Daniel Webster.

This saint's remains were in a box atop a wardrobe for 6 years before being redisplayed February 14, 1999	Saint Valentine.

In captivitiy, these wading birds are fed carotenoid pigments to keep the plumage color they have in the wild	Flamingo.

Anne's bad habits	Rice's vices.

He outlasted his brothers Sam, Albert & Harry in the company, finally selling out in 1967	Jack Warner.

Completed in 1856, California's first railroad ran 22 miles between Sacramento & this prison city	Folsom.

In 1961 Hassan II was crowned in this country after his father died following a minor nose operation	Morocco.

Also known as a duck hawk, it has been clocked at 175 miles per hour during a dive	Peregrine falcon.

Julia Ward's female swine	Howe's sows;23456.

It's worn by a novice in judo or karate	White belt.

Uganda's Sese Islands lie in the northern part of this large lake	Lake Victoria.

Born in Fabens, Texas in 1931, this legendary jockey won his first of 8,833 races at age 18	Willie Shoemaker.

The Wren Building at this school named for 2 monarchs is the oldest U.S.

academic building still in use	William and Mary.

The most common isotope of hydrogen has an atomic weight of this whole number	1.

In 1999 her "Faith" CD reached triple platinum status	Faith Hill.

In a 1969 film this title group included William Holden & Warren Oates	The Wild Bunch.

Parts of this capital city lie on the islands of Gezira & Roda in the Nile River	Cairo.

Playing center for the Boston Celtics, he led the team to 11 NBA championships in the '50s & '60s	Bill Russell.

Discovered separately in the 1770s by British & Swedish chemists, it was found to be a gas by a Frenchman	Oxygen.

[Well hey everybody, I'm Naomi Judd]  In mid-1984 Wynonna & I made our first ever concert appearance at Ak-Sar-Ben, a large concert hall in this Nebraska city	Omaha.

Now a part of Tanzania, this island known for its cloves was mentioned in "The Patty Duke Show" theme song	Zanzibar.

This outlaw of the Old West also went by the name Henry McCarty	Billy the Kid.

As a liquid, it's used as a cryogenic refrigerant; as a gas, it makes lights red	Neon.

"Strawberry Wine" was the first of 3 No.

1 hits from this debut album by Deana Carter	"Did I Shave My Legs for This?".

Malagasy, 1 of its 2 official languages, is of Indonesian origin	Madagascar.

This perennial Democratic nominee also served as Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of State	William Jennings Bryan.

The student newspaper of this Hanover, N.H.

school calls itself "America's Oldest College Newspaper"	Dartmouth.

Lighter than air, it's also called marsh gas & is found in natural gas	Methane.

This performer became an Opry member in 1991, the same year his "When I Call Your Name" album went platinum	Vince Gill.

Wine production is a chief industry of this Portuguese island off Africa's northwest coast	Madeira.

Before hosting his TV "Journal", he was deputy director of the Peace Corps	Bill Moyers.

Swarthmore College of Pennsylvania has a historical library devoted to this religious group that founded it	Quakers (Society of Friends).

This gas forms tiny bubbles in a diver's bloodstream that can be dangerous if he ascends too quickly	Nitrogen.

In 1990 Jukebox named this Randy Travis cover of a Brook Benton hit the Country Record of the Year	"It's Just A Matter of Time".

This 1937 mystery was written at the Old Cataract Hotel in Aswan	\"Death on the Nile\".

This ship, Columbus' flagship., was originally called the Marigalanti	Santa Maria.

Bread is eaten so widely it's often called the "staff of" this	life.

Shortly after birth, Arthur was given to this wizard for safekeeping	Merlin.

Some of the fanciest of these reptiles are beaded, horned, or frilled	lizards.

This waterfall is separated into the American Falls & Horseshoe Falls by Goat Island	Niagara Falls.

It's Pennsylvania's nickname	the Keystone state.

Neither this admiral nor his flagship, the Trinidad, completed the circumnavigation of the globe	Magellan.

The "pearl" type of this is served as a vegetable or pickled & used as a condiment	an onion.

Arthur's round table had a seat reserved for this knight who could find this	the Holy Grail.

The AKC could tell that Afghans & Salukis belong to this dog group	hounds.

Before applying to become a naturalized U.S.

citizen, a resident alien must have reached this age	eighteen.

Attractions in this Florida city include the homes of Ernest Hemingway & John Jacob Audubon	Key West.

The Queen Elizabeth was a few feet lnger than this, her sister ship	the Queen Mary.

Kentucky burgoo is a thick one of these made with meat vegetables	a stew.

Arthur set up the diamond jousts, a series of 9 annual tournaments all won by this knight	Lancelot.

The oxpecker, which is this type of animal, likes to ride on the backs of giraffes	a bird.

This noble gas glows orange-red when an electric current is passed through it	neon.

This type of private establishment admits only members & their guests	a key club.

In 1831 Charles Darwin sailed as naturalist on this ship	the Beagle.

Hard sauce is made by beating together sugar, this spread, & a flavoring such as brandy	butter.

The title of this T.H.

White book refers to the object that made Arthur king	a sword in the stone.

The Dorcas type of this graceful antelope is one of the smallest; it's barely 2 feet tall	a gazelle.

Jules Verne's book "Around the Moon" was the sequel to this 1865 best seller	From the Earth to the Moon.

No bones about it, it opens many locks	a skeleton key.

The Thresher & Scorpion were this type of ship; 1 was lost in 1963, 1 in 1968	(nuclear) submarines.

"Crevette" is the French word for this shellfish	shrimp.

After Mordred mortally wounded him, Arthur's body was carried away to this island	Avalon.

This spotted cat is also known as the hunting leopard	the cheetah.

This N.H.

school was the last U.S.

institution of higher learning to be founded by royal decree	Dartmouth.

From 1833 to 1841 he served as U.S.

attorney for the District of Columbia	Francis Scott Key.

In metric measurement, 10 millimeters equal 1 of these	a centimeter.

In one Grimm tale, 12 princesses dance these to pieces in an underground castle	their shoes.

Wyoming shares the Black Hills National Forest with this state	South Dakota.

In 1986 she became the 1st black woman to win the World Championship of Figure Skating	Debbie Thomas.

Under this arrangement, labor and management agree to let a third party settle their dispute	arbitration.

Imprisoned in Genoa, he dictated an account of his visit to the court of Kublai Khan	Marco Polo.

Boyle's Law says normally if you double the pressure on a gas, the volume decreases by this amount	one-half.

Anne Shirley leaves the orphanage to live on this "colorful" farm in Avonlea	Green Gables.

A western celebration, Frontier Days, has been held each year since 1897 in this capital	Cheyenne.

In 1986 this East German beauty was called "the warmest thing to hit the Cold War since vodka"	Katarina Witt.

This board was created in 1935 to correct or prevent unfair labor practices by employers or unions	the National Labor Relations Board.

This continent's Mali empire reached its apogee under Mansa Musa in the 14th century	Africa.

In 1973 it became the first comet studied by men in space	Kohoutek.

"The Comic Adventures of" this elderly woman "and her Dog" were first published in 1805	Old Mother Hubbard.

The source of this main tributary of the Columbia River is located in Yellowstone National Park	the Snake River.

Native country of Barbara Ann Scott, who in 1947 became the 1st N.

American to win the European title	Canada.

In 1978 legislation raised the mandatory retirement age to this	seventy.

In 1301 Edward II was the first English heir to be given this title	Prince of Wales.

One mole of any substance always has the same number, 6.022 x 1023 of these	atoms.

Dinarzade is the younger sister of this woman known for her nocturnal stories	Shahrazad.

Settlement began in earnest when this railroad pushed across the state in the 1860s	the Union Pacific.

An injury forced him & Tai Babilonia to withdraw from the pairs competition at Lake Placid in 1980	Randy Gardner.

The United Steelworkers of America is headquartered in this city	Pittsburgh.

Irene, who reigned from 797-802, declared herselt Emperor, not Empress, of this empire	the Byzantine Empire.

This resin, a natural polymer used as a varnish, is produced by insects in India and Myanmar	shellac.

Madeline is one of "twelve little girls in two straight lines" who attend a school in this city	Paris.

1 of Wyoming's 2 U.S.

senators	Alan Simpson (or Malcolm Wallop).

Dorothy Hamill developed a spin now known as the "Hamill" one of these	camel.

This union withdrew from the AFL-CIO in 168 under Walter Reuther, but rejoined in 1981	the United Autoworkers Union.

In 1358 this league of North German trading towns made Lubeck its administrative headquarters	the Hanseatic League.

He served FDR as Commerce Secretary, Agriculture Secretary, and Vice President	Henry Wallace.

Though his last name means "pertaining to a city", this "Defying Gravity" singer is a country superstar	Keith Urban.

The witness is testifying based on what someone else told her--that's called this	hearsay.

This word precedes "Conservancy" in the name of a group with a million members	Nature.

Now applied to Shakespeare, this word referred originally to Celtic minstrel poets	bard.

A.

Philip Randolph, who first proposed a march on this city in 1941, also helped organize the one in 1963	Washington, D.C..

In 2010 this movie soundtrack featuring Jeff Bridges was a Billboard Top 10 country album	Crazy Heart.

In 1521, Ignatius was struck by a cannonball while defending this country against the French	Spain.

Calls for an opinion--only allowed for this type of witness with special knowledge of a subject	an expert witness.

The Environmental Defense Fund helped convince this fast-food co.

to abandon polystyrene containers in 1990	McDonald's.

For peat sake, you should know this word for wet, spongy ground	a bog.

In 1945 Virginia Gildersleeve was the only female U.S.

delegate to the conference that drafted this charter	the United Nations.

Not to be confused with Lady Gaga is Lady this, the country music group with the CD "Need You Now"	Lady Antebellum.

When Clement XIV abolished the Jesuits in 1773, they thrived in Russia with help from this empress	Catherine the Great.

Counsel is putting words in the witness' mouth with this type of question; the word also means "in first place"	a leading question.

A "Mission" to help the homeless is named for this Lower Manhattan street known as a skid row since the 1800s	Bowery.

This type of sprite will lead you to the gold	a leprechaun.

Named for his cousin, James Buchanan Eads built the first bridge across this river at St.

Louis	the Mississippi.

This sound, like that made by plucking a guitar, is the title of a 2009 album by George Strait	twang.

In 1542 missionaries sent by Ignatius to Ireland were hampered by this king	Henry VIII.

Counsel is being argumentative, also known as doing this to the witness, as seen here	badgering.

The LFA is a leading group battling this disease named for lesions that resemble a wolf's bite	lupus.

Tiny pieces, or the New Jersey band that sang "Only a Memory"	smithereens.

Doris Eaton Travis, who passed away in 2010 at age 106, was the last surviving showgirl from these follies	Ziegfeld.

This frontman of Hootie & the Blowfish went country with his solo album "Learn to Live"	(Darius) Rucker.

While in Paris, Ignatius was accused & brought before Ori, this type of truth-seeking 10-letter holy man	an inquisitor.

We've heard the question already; I'm making this objection that could be called "triple a"	asked and answered.

The Andre Agassi foundation for education runs Agassi Prep in this city	Las Vegas.

This word for a type of liquor applies to a 1794 American rebellion	whiskey.

Of course there's a car chase on the freeway in 1985's "To Live and Die in __.__."	L.A..

Sadly, she died in Boston in 1888, just 2 days after her transcendentalist father Bronson	Louisa May Alcott.

Goat Island splits Niagara Falls into the American Falls & this waterfall on the Canadian side	Horseshoe Falls.

Although sources disagree over the origin of this "do-over" golf shot, many accept that it was named for a bad golfer	a Mulligan.

It's what the "A" stands for in AIDS	acquired.

2010 brought Travolta as a spy in "From ____ with Love"	Paris.

Entertainment mogul Barry & funny lady Phyllis	Diller.

In 2009 she published her 76th bestseller, "Matters of the Heart", & was inducted into the Calif.

Hall of Fame	Danielle Steel.

In 1846 Neptune was discovered in this constellation, the 10th sign of the zodiac	Capricorn.

This country is named after "the George Washington of South America" (the actual George only got cities & a state)	Bolivia.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew stands behind a table)   The experiment showing that two objects weighing the same displace different amounts of water because they have different densities was developed by this mathematician	Archimedes.

2010, starring Kristen Bell: "When in ____"	Rome.

Late radio commentator Paul & James I's physician William	Harvey.

Esther Greenwood is an aspiring poet in this poet's novel "The Bell Jar"	Sylvia Plath.

In "The Hunchback of Notre Dame", Pierre Gringoire rescues this gypsy girl's goat from a mob	Esmeralda.

Meaning elegant or fancy, it's from the name of a hotel chain founded by a Swiss businessman	ritzy.

In the 1920s Edwin Hubble determined that this galaxy was in fact a separate galaxy from the Milky Way	Andromeda.

2008's "The Mysteries of ____" was based on a novel	Pittsburgh.

"Tennessee Tailor" Andrew & poet/NAACP leader James Weldon	Johnson.

"Shiksa Goddess: (or, How I Spent My Forties)" is a collection of essays by this "Heidi Chronicles" playwright	(Wendy) Wasserstein.

The backward-curving horns of the Siberian species of this 4-letter goat may be nearly 5 feet long	ibex.

This submachine gun was named for an Israeli army officer whose design won a competition in the 1950s	Uzi.

These are just small masses of lymphoid tissue in the nasopharynx	adenoids.

The 1980 Oscar winner for Foreign Language Film was "____ does Not Believe in Tears"	Moscow.

17th century philosopher Sir Francis & 20th century painter Francis	Bacon.

"Seducing the Demon: Writing for my Life" is a 2006 memoir by this "Fear of Flying" author	Erica Jong.

Crippled beggar Sammy Smalls, who traveled in a goat cart, inspired a title character of this opera set on Catfish Row	Porgy and Bess.

Named for a French courtesan, Pommes Anna is a dish of layered these, not apples	potatoes.

Made up of 1 large & many smaller islands, it's the most populous of Britain's remaining overseas territories	Bermuda.

"I never believed in anything before I believed in movies", said this "E.T." director	Spielberg.

A small & informal restaurant, or one who eats there	diner.

Famous ones include Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini & Roberto "Hands of Stone" Duran	lightweights.

The names of TV cameras & videocassette recorders are combined in this device	a camcorder.

This hero made his comic book debut in & on the cover of Action Comics No.

1	Superman.

Once Yemen's chief coffee port, its name now refers to a flavor of chocolate & coffee	Mocha.

"Everybody denies I am a genius--but nobody ever called me one!" noted this man who raised "Kane"	Orson Welles.

A building for religious veneration, or the L.A.

auditorium that hosted 1997's Academy Awards	shrine.

To do this to someone's plight, you could trivialize it, or just take the P away	make light of it.

Aptly, underwater photography may require these widest wide-angle lenses	fisheye lenses.

In a 1965 speech this president put out a call for "affirmative action" in hiring by federal contractors	Johnson.

The flavorful coffee beans from this country are grown at high altitudes near Nairobi	Kenya.

When an actress in his "Lifeboat" asked him what her best side was, he said, "My dear, you're sitting on it"	Hitchcock.

Libraries & the Christian Science Church maintain these areas; the British Museum built a big one in 1857	reading rooms.

Ben Franklin invented this device & would have been shocked if it hadn't worked	the lightning rod.

In 1986 Kodak left the instant camera business after a judge found it had violated this company's patents	Polaroid.

You may not give a fig, but according to Newton, there's one of these for every action	an equal & opposite reaction.

Java is a synonym for coffee; a high-grade bean also comes from this next most populous Indonesian island	Sumatra.

"Manhattan"ite who said, "Life is divided into the horrible and the miserable"--sounds "Bananas" to us	Woody Allen.

A place where a river is shallow enough to cross on foot, alone or with an "escort"	a ford.

A joking question asked about many groups is "How many does it take to" do this	screw in a light bulb.

The action of a boy can ring a girl's bell, & the action of these can ring a buoy's bell	a wave.

Mexico's best coffee comes from Chiapas, a state that borders this noted coffee-growing nation	Guatemala.

"The best director is the one you don't see", observed this director of "Some Like It Hot"	Billy Wilder.

This term for a house's entrance hall also refers to the space between cars on a train	the vestibule.

"I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine"	this little light of mine.

Dutch-American artist about whose work the term "action painting" was coined	Willem de Kooning.

It's the play that inspired Reynaldo Hahn's opera "Le Marchand de Venise"	The Merchant of Venice.

In T minus 5 seconds, you'll say this word for the inverted series used before a rocket launch	a countdown.

Mel Blanc said he created this character's voice by combining Brooklyn & Bronx accents	Bugs Bunny.

The discovery of this in 1896 turned Seward's Folly into Seward's Good Fortune	gold.

Armando Munoz Garcia sculpted a 55' statue of a nude woman & lived in it in this Mexican city near San Diego	Tijuana.

This state's name is from the Sioux for "sky-tinted waters"; maybe they meant the 10,000 lakes	Minnesota.

The Bolshoi presented this ballet at the Met in 1959, with Yuri Zhdanov & Galina Ulanova as the title lovers	Romeo & Juliet.

In psychology it's the process of reverting to an earlier, childlike form of behavior	regression.

I say there, son, this Warner Bros.

cartoon rooster is sometimes pursued by a chicken hawk	Foghorn Leghorn.

The 1866 Civil Rights Act was passed over this president's veto	Johnson.

The U.S.

statesman seen here was born in 1923 in this country:	Germany.

The Old Norse word "vindauga" gave us this pane-ful word for an opening in a wall	window.

You'll need some long-winded singers to star in "Stormen", a Swedish opera based on this play	The Tempest.

Field Marshal Barclay used this maneuver associated with defeat to lure Napoleon deep into Russia	a retreat.

On screen, he's a "tubby little cubby all stuffed with fluff"	Winnie the Pooh.

Kansas homesteader Bewster Higley's poem "The Western Home" was retitled this when set to music	"Home On The Range".

This media mogul from Melbourne has been called a real-life Citizen Kane	Rupert Murdoch.

Derived from the Latin for "salted vegetables", this cold dish might be enhanced with a little oil & vinegar	salad.

Verdi wrote an aria called "La Luce Langue"--The Light Fails--for this bloothirsty villainess	Lady Macbeth.

In competitive rowing, this is the only person in the boat whose back is not to the finish line	the coxswain.

Ted Cassidy, who played Thing on "The Addams Family", was also the voice of The Thing of this superhero group	The Fantastic 4.

To avoid Boss Tweed's graft, Alfred Beach secretly built one of these under Broadway in 1869-70	a subway.

This number can be traced back to the Sankrit "Shunya", or empty	zero.

Title character played by former Alvin Ailey dancer Desmond Richardson in a 1997 ballet	Othello.

Called "Bojangles", he was renowned for tap dancing on stairs & running backwards at high speed	(Bill) Robinson.

Sylvester believes Hippety Hopper, a baby one of these, to be a gigantic mouse	a kangaroo.

The -sex suffix on British placenames refers to this Germanic people	the Saxons.

Capt.

Robert Fitzroy of this ship argued that its scientific discoveries supported the Bible	the Beagle.

This title folk story guy steals a golden egg-laying hen, bags of gold & a golden harp; the "giant-cide" comes later	Jack.

Jack Palance's character is described as "a saddlebag with eyes" in this 1991 comedy	City Slickers.

Standard-issue weapons for stormtroopers in "Star Wars" included energy-bolt-firing pistols called these	blasters.

This term refers to the painful inflammation of any of the fibrous structures that connect muscles to bones	tendinitis.

What a happy ending: this title orphan of a Dickens novel is adopted by Mr.

Brownlow	Oliver Twist.

Chips' aquatic partner (4)	fish.

Playing the pass line in craps, it's the winning number on the opening roll other than 7	11.

(Drew Barrymore delivers the clue.)  In my film "Music and Lyrics", Hugh Grant plays the "Jeopardy! Think Music" written by this creator of "Jeopardy!"	Merv Griffin.

In the 1960s Nelson Mandela led the military group "Umkhonto we Sizwe", or this weapon "of the Nation"	Spear.

To test for visual acuity, the Snellen chart is designed to be read from this many feet away	20.

This character in "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" is said to be the ghost of a Hessian trooper	the Headless Horseman.

Honshu volcano (4)	Fuji.

Found in Southeast Asia, they're the smallest apes	gibbons.

Irene Bedard, the speaking voice of this heroine in an animated Disney film, played her mother in "The New World"	Pocahontas.

The first 2 weapons Hamlet mentions in his "To be or not to be" soliloquy	slings & arrows.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew tends to a virtual patient at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Ctr, a Harvard teaching hospital in Boston, MA.)  A dilated pupil indicates that a head injury may have led to an acute subdural this, where blood accumulates within the skull	a hematoma.

She is the narrator of "To Kill a Mockingbird"	Scout.

Greek-letter group (10)	fraternity.

Pick up a GT from this car co.

for a tidy $169,000, or maybe start out with a Focus for a more reasonable $13,715	Ford.

(Hi, I'm Sean Hayes.)  In the 2003 film "Pieces of April", I played an offbeat neighbor of this actress who had yet to meet & marry Tom Cruise	Katie Holmes.

In the missile called a "SAM", it's what the "A" stands for	air.

It begins, "I swear by Apollo physician and Asclepius..."	the hippocratic oath.

2 names that follow Gerald, who speaks in weird sounds instead of words in a Dr.

Seuss story	McBoing-Boing.

A Mrs., in Munich (4)	Frau.

The tuliptree, or "yellow" this, was planted by Washington at Mt.

Vernon, & Daniel Boone used its wood in his canoe	poplar.

Jane Russell & Marilyn Monroe sang about being "Two Little Girls from Little Rock" in this 1953 movie musical	Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.

The weapons that are "bursting" in line 5 of "The Star-Spangled Banner"	bombs.

Luteinizing hormone is one of the many produced by this cherry-shaped gland	the pituitary.

In a story by Rudyard Kipling, this mongoose protects an English family from snakes	Rikki-Tikki-Tavi.

It's spoken in Hameenlinna & Hyvinkaa (7)	Finnish.

This general, first in his class at West Point, ran for president in 2004	Wesley Clark.

The Fairmont in this city's Nob Hill was the exterior used for Aaron Spelling's "Hotel" TV series	San Francisco.

St.

George's Channel separates Wales from this country	Ireland.

I think I'll just have a nosh--a bagel, cream cheese & the Nova Scotia type of this	lox.

Caesar, Antony, Cicero, et al.	Romans.

I see in my crystal ball that Bill Hewitt wrote a book about how to read these	tea leaves.

This "old soldier" was a general at age 38; in 1930 at age 50, he was Chief of Staff of the U.S.

Army	MacArthur.

David Chase created this HBO series & wrote many of its episodes, like "Mr.

Ruggerio's Neighborhood"	The Sopranos.

Bristol Bay is an arm of this sea off Alaska	the Bering.

I'll have one of these "city" omelets stuffed with ham, onions & green peppers	a Denver omelette.

In a 1971 song he "was a bullfrog"	Jeremiah.

A tea room in Cambria, California is named for this kind of teapot cover--& it sells them, too	a cozy.

More than 540,000 men & women served under this general's command of the U.S.

forces in the Persian Gulf War of 1991	(Norman) Schwarzkopf.

He moved from "Melrose Place" to the east coast for "Central Park West" & "Sex & the City"	Darren Star.

Rivers that flow into this sea include the Dnieper, Dniester & Danube	the Black Sea.

Someone pass me this noodle pudding filled with raisins  & nuts	kugel.

Hey, this, don't be "obscure"	Jude.

This slang synonym for oil is mentioned in the theme song to "The Beverly Hillbillies"	Texas tea.

The only place this general wouldn't "march" was to the presidency; he told the GOP "I will not accept if nominated" in 1884	Sherman.

In 2003 this "Survivor" head honcho began conducting a search to give Donald Trump an apprentice	Mark Burnett.

The Uruguay River forms the border between Uruguay & Argentina & most of the border between Argentina & this country	Brazil.

It's a good knight for one of these Jewish turnovers with a meat or potato filling	a knish.

This character first hit the radio in 1928 with his partner Andy	Amos.

When Lady Diana had doubts about marrying Prince Charles, she was told: Too late.

"Your face is on" these cloth items	tea towels.

This Army general headed American-led forces during the initial combat phase of the Iraq War as it began in 2003	Tommy Franks.

He probably has another 6 or 7 "Law & Order" offshoots on his desk just waiting for network slots	Dick Wolf.

This Venezuelan lake is the only one of the world's 25 largest lakes whose elevation is sea level	Lake Maracaibo.

Something smells fishy--must be this chopped fish patty mixed with crumbs & eggs & served cold in a jellied broth	gefilte fish.

Few were "better than" this Mr.

Cornell who founded the university in 1865	Ezra.

In 1975 the Perfumer's Workshop introduced a fragrance named for this flower	a tea rose.

Later a U.S.

senator, in 1962 he made a famous 75,000-mile trip	John Glenn.

Between 1856 & 1860, 2,962 of this faith set out from Iowa & Nebraska to Utah in the Handcart Migration	Mormonism.

The Dire Straits song "Money For Nothing" says, "You play the guitar on" this cable channel	MTV.

Before he was a prophet, Smohalla gained fame as one of these alliterative Native American healers	a medicine man.

This Nobel Peace Prize winner was born in what is now Skopje, Macedonia in 1910	Mother Teresa.

This slang term for coffee precedes "chip" in a Starbucks ice cream flavor	java.

This adjective refers to the original natives of any region	indigenous.

On April 2, 1917 President Wilson told Congress, "The world must be made safe for" this	democracy.

This channel for women produces the original drama "Army Wives"	Lifetime.

In I Kings this fiery Biblical prophet won a contest with the prophets of Baal	Elijah.

This British dame, Rudolf Nureyev's dance partner, was married to a Panamanian diplomat	Margot Fonteyn.

Butter is an ingredient of this hard candy that has "butter" in its name; the rest of its name doesn't refer to whisky	butterscotch.

The systematic teaching of beliefs to gain uncritical acceptance	indoctrination.

On April 20, 1971 the U.S.

Supreme Court upheld this transportation method as a way to achieve school integration	busing.

This channel shows films like "The Magnificent Seven" & original series like "Mad Men" & "Breaking Bad"	AMC.

The soothsayer Calchas told this king he had to offer up his daughter Iphigenia to Artemis to get winds to rise	Agamemnon.

She wrote her first novel, "The House of the Spirits", in exile soon after her uncle's assassination	Isabel Allende.

A confection called a kiss is baked this: sugar & stiffly beaten egg whites	meringue.

Punjab means "land of 5 rivers", & all 5 of the rivers eventually flow into this one	the Indus.

John O'Sullivan, who later became a diplomat, coined this term for the USA's right to cover the continent	Manifest Destiny.

You'll "find" that this channel features "Cash Cab" & "Dirty Jobs"	Discovery.

Poems known as the "Gathas" are attributed to this ancient prophet & teacher who lived in eastern Iran	Zoroaster.

This Norwegian beauty is noted for her work with Ingmar Bergman & with UNICEF	Liv Ullmann.

A red cake named for this smooth fabric is really a chocolate cake--food coloring gives it the distinctive color	velvet.

Insurance term meaning to protect against damage, loss or injury	indemnity.

In 1798 Congress passed this collection of bills to control domestic dissent & conspiracy against the federal govt.	the Alien & Sedition Acts.

Channel that's been home to gritty shows like "Dirt" & "Rescue Me"	FX.

On the Sistine Chapel ceiling, Michelangelo included some of these ancient oracle-like prophetesses	sibyls.

Under 5 feet tall & all of about 90 pounds, this frail French chanteuse was nicknamed the "Little Sparrow"	(Edith) Piaf.

Some pies have a top named for this garden structure	a lattice.

Also a term in logic, it's the process by which a magnetic field is ordered into poles	induction.

Sergey Korolyov was instrumental in the success of this first artificial satellite of the Earth	Sputnik.

One of the 8 teams in the CFL is the Stampeders, who play for this city in the Canadian Rockies	Calgary.

Guyana is divided into 3 regions: a highland, an inland forest & a coastal plain along this ocean	the Atlantic.

The poem called the "Garibnameh" contains 11,000 masnavi, which we know as these rhymed 2-line units of verse	couplets.

This first sign is a nocturnal animal; those born under it work best in quiet hours; oo, you dirty...	rat.

Unlike some, I like my women to be "cranio", this quality we also admire on "Jeopardy!"	intelligence.

Rehovot in this country has an institute named for Russian-born Chaim Weizmann, who synthesized acetone	Israel.

Unlike the NFL, a CFL team gets this many downs in a series to advance the ball 10 yards	three.

Located at the mouth of the Demerara River, it's the capital & largest city	Georgetown.

A religious kaside poem praised God, this man or his son-in-law, Ali Ibn Abi Talib, the fourth caliph	Muhammad.

This wascally sign whose years include 1951 & 1999 shows bravery against high odds & is rarely be-Fudd-led	a rabbit.

Forget about him, he met someone down at Ipanema Beach & now he's "apaixonado", this condition	in love.

In the mid-18th c.

Mikhail Lomonosov became the first scientist to record the freezing of this liquid metal	mercury.

French for "red", it's the term used for the point that is scored if a punt goes out of the end zone untouched	rouge.

Spectacular waterfalls in Guyana include one named for a British king of this name, who ruled 1901-10	Edward.

Sultan Abdulhamid II's censorship hindered Ottoman writers until this "youthful" group's 1908 revolution	the Young Turks.

This sign for 2006 shows devotion to family; aren't you a good sign? Yes you are! Good sign!	the dog.

Cousin Fred said he was Napoleon last night; I'm afraid he might be "maluco", this	crazy.

Lev Landau won a 1962 Nobel Prize for working in low-temperature physics, also known as this	cryogenics.

This former Boston College & New England Patriots QB was the CFL's most outstanding player 6 times	Doug Flutie.

One of Guyana's largest cities, it's also an old name for New York City	New Amsterdam.

Peter Ustinov directed & starred in the film version of the Yasar Kemal novel "Memed, My" this predatory bird	Hawk.

1967 folks "flock" to this sign that represents the essence of the Yin, the feminine passive principle	the sheep.

If you want another drink, hand over some "grana", this; I'm not covering for you anymore after last night	money.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows the periodic table on the monitor.)  In devising the periodic table, Mendeleev laid out the elements in rows & columns to show the different relationships when read each way; he's said to have been inspired by a version of this card game	solitaire.

The Alouettes play their home games at Molson Stadium on the campus of this Montreal university	McGill.

Guyana has had a long-standing border dispute with this small country to its southeast	Suriname.

Seyid Imadeddin Nesimi wrote 2 of these poetry collections, also a word from Turkish for a couch	divan.

The only 2-letter sign, it represents solid dependability, method & routine	the ox.

That very blond guy you met at carnival is called an "alemao", literally a man from this country	Germany.

The parents of this 1942 film character are an unnamed mother & a father known as "the great prince of the forest"	Bambi.

Over 80% of those in Bangladesh follow this religion	Islam.

Mrs.

Brad Pitt	Jennifer Aniston.

The twin rotor type of this has 2 main rotors going in opposite directions, so it doesn't need a tail rotor	a helicopter.

The mythical Sumerian hero Utnapishtim built a big vessel at God's urging & thereby survived this catastrophe	a flood.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew delivers the clue in a tongue foreign to us but familiar to her.)  Spoken by about 9 million people worldwide it's the Scandinavian language I'm speaking	Swedish.

The stars of the movie "Network" include Faye Dunaway, Beatrice Straight & Peter Finch	a finch.

About two-thirds of all Bangladeshis work in agriculture, mostly farming this product	rice.

Mrs.

Tim McGraw	Faith Hill.

There are no knife or spoon varieties of these vehicles used in warehouses to raise & carry merchandise	forklifts.

Lotis, later turned into the lotus tree, was one of these female spirits of nature	a nymph.

"Namaste" is a greeting in this official language of India used by over a quarter of a billion speakers	Hindi.

One of the cardinal rules of e-mail listed on insiderreports.com is to turn off your Caps-Lock	a cardinal.

The green on the flag of Bangladesh represents its lush vegetation; the red circle in the middle is this	the sun.

Mrs.

James Carville	(Mary) Matalin.

The U.S.

U-2, first built in the 1950s, was an airplane; the German U-1, first built in the 1910s, was one of these	a submarine.

In Zuni myth, a kachina named Paiyatemu attracted these colorfully winged insects when she played the flute	butterflies.

The official language of Niger, it's a remnant of its colonial times	French.

At NYU, Martin Scorsese taught future filmmakers Spike Lee & Oliver Stone	a martin.

After India was partitioned in 1947, what would later become Bangladesh was the "East" part of this country	Pakistan.

Mrs.

Maury Povich	Connie Chung.

In 1994 the trip across this body of water was cut from a little more than an hour to about 35 minutes	the English Channel.

This goddess after whom a major city in Greece is named sprang from the head of Zeus	Athena.

The official language of Andorra, it's the second-most spoken language in Spain	Catalan.

The third rail in a subway system is the one with the juice & should be avoided like a touchy subject	a rail.

In the 1960s, Louis Kahn designed the Parliament building seen here in this capital	Dhaka.

Mrs.

Blake Edwards	Julie Andrews.

The Kearsarge was the only one of these not named for a U.S.

state	a battleship.

Riding this winged horse made it possible for Bellerophon to approach & kill the chimera	Pegasus.

Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala is a well-known writer in this language of the Incas	Quechua.

The Academy of Pro Players Power Hitting Baseball Camp can help you with bat speed, bunting & hitting the curve	a bunting.

No relation to the Lakers' center, she's the youngest ever to win a Supporting Actress Oscar	Tatum O'Neal.

Most bar recipes for the stinger call for the white version of this potent potable, not the green	crme de menthe.

"SF Sorrow" by The Pretty Things was the first of these works; "Tommy" came soon after	a rock opera.

This S.F.

Giant, Barry Bonds' godfather, got his nickname from his unique greetings to fans	Say Hey Willie Mays.

Shortly after the death of Gen.

Omar Torrijos, Manuel Noriega controlled the junta that ruled this country	Panama.

From Old French, its [sic] what we call the person who runs the roulette table	croupier.

Colorful actor seen here who won Best Supporting Actor in 1973	Joel Grey.

Singer/actor Sting played Feyd-Rautha in this David Lynch film based on a Frank Herbert novel	Dune.

National Guard troops escorted black students to class in this southern state capital in August 1959	Little Rock.

After the death of his mother, this future poet was taken in by his godfather John Allan in 1811	(Edgar Allan) Poe.

The "Juntas Provinciales" organized the Spanish resistance to this man's 1808 invasion	Napoleon (Bonaparte).

Campari & Pernod are good options for this pre-meal potent potable	apritif.

Of Jack Nicholson's 5 nominations in the 1970s, this was the only movie for which he won	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.

The creature known as this "false" arachnid has venomous pincers & no tail	a scorpion.

Also known as the Mosque of Omar, it was home to the Knights Templar during the Crusades	the Dome of the Rock.

He was the royal godfather to the son of French playwright Moliere	King Louis XIV.

This former priest was ousted in Feb.

2004, even after a U.S.-brokered deal in 1994 with the Haitian junta kept him in power	Aristide.

For her portrayal of Greta Ohlsson in a 1974 mystery, this legendary actress scored her third Oscar	Ingrid Bergman.

The WNBA team belonging to this southern city is known as The Sting	Charlotte.

Also called halite, this common mineral can be formed by the drying of enclosed bodies of seawater	rock salt.

After a mock funeral for this counterculture icon, his goddaughter, Winona Ryder, moved in with him	Timothy Leary.

After the junta released activist Aung San Suu Kyi to house arrest, Japan restored aid to this country	Burma (or Myanmar).

A homophone for the French word for "wheel", you need a good one to make gumbo	a roux.

This son of a famous French impressionist painter received an honorary Oscar in 1975	Jean Renoir.

This famous FBI sting derived its name from one its fictitious enterprises, Abdul Enterprises	Abscam.

This peninsula in the borough of Queens is one of the principal resort areas for New Yorkers	Rockaway Beach (or Peninsula).

This British philosopher who won a Nobel Prize in 1950 was the godchild of John Stuart Mill	Bertrand Russell.

In 1998 Nigerian-led forces captured Freetown, ousting the junta that controlled this African country	Sierra Leone.

From the French for "to sort" comes the word for this process of treating patients based on need	triage.

2 of the 4 Shakespeare plays in which ghosts appear on stage	(2 of) Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Macbeth, Richard III.

12 avenues radiate from Place Charles de Gaulle in this city	Paris.

This Florida-born women's great who retired in 1989 wrote the World Book Encyclopedia article on tennis	Chris Evert.

Probably the biggest big game the Clovis culture went after 11,200 years ago, it was woolly	Mammoth.

3M's Richard Drew invented it in 1930 to have something to seal the cellophane of food products	Scotch tape.

Long, flat-bottomed & painted a somber black, they're the traditional taxis of Venice	Gondolas.

In the familiar jokes, it precedes "Who's there?"	Knock Knock.

Bridges crossing the Nile River in this capital include El Gama'a & El Giza	Cairo.

In 1984 this quarterback became the first Boston College player to win the Heisman Trophy	Doug Flutie.

The Folsom culture about 10,900 years ago had a fluted type of this weapon & a "thrower" for it	Spear.

Newsweek reports Westinghouse made one in 1952 that played "How Dry I Am" at the end of each cycle	Clothes dryer.

In 1980 the U.S.

government loaned this auto company $1.5 billion; the loans were repaid within 3 years	Chrysler.

It's a sailor's way of saying to a superior "I understand & will obey"	Aye-Aye.

Haiphong near the Gulf of Tonkin serves as this city's main port	Hanoi.

Babe Ruth's father once operated a saloon on what is now center field in this Baltimore ballpark	Oriole Park at Camden Yards.

The Anasazi, a word from this Indian language for "ancient ones", lived in what's now the 4 Corners area	Navajo.

In 1939 the Hydra-Matic system made this automatic in the Oldsmobile	Transmission.

This U.S.

city has more miles of subway than any other subway system in the Western Hemisphere	New York City.

This full, loose women's garment with a bright print is traditional attire in Hawaii	Muumuu.

The ancient Greeks called this Jordanian capital Philadelphia	Amman.

In the 1997 Belmont Stakes, Touch Gold dashed this "charmed" horse's Triple Crown bid	Silver Charm.

The Adena-Hopewell culture in the Ohio area was known for building these, both the burial & effigy types	Mounds.

In 1983 the first U.S.

commercial call on one of these was from Chicago to a descendant of Bell in Germany	Cellular phone.

In Britain, it's a kitchen on a ship's deck; in the U.S., it's traditionally the last car on a freight train	Caboose.

It's a hand-beaten drum used by American Indians	Tom-tom.

In 1809 one of the first revolts for independence in Latin America broke out in this Ecuadoran capital	Quito.

National Hockey League team whose logo is seen here: (knife through a "B")	Buffalo Sabres.

Warriors of this Yucatan civilization battle in the computer-enhanced mural seen here:	Mayans.

They were invented in 1947 & by the 1990s millions were being placed on a single chip	Transistors.

When it opened, it cut the distance from London to Bombay by 5,100 miles	Suez Canal.

He's Barney & Betty Rubble's noisy son	Bamm-Bamm.

The diary of this woman, wife of a famous aviator, describes the kidnapping of her son	Anne Morrow Lindbergh.

Kurt Russell, who later played Elvis, was in the 1963 Elvis film "It Happened" here	At the World's Fair.

The Pacific species of this has an arm span of up to 33 feet	Octopus.

The barrel species of this spiny plant can bring a touch of the desert into your home	Cactus.

("Habanera")	"Carmen".

Don't lose your head trying to name this execution device named after a French doctor	Guillotine.

Fittingly, Samuel Pepys began keeping his famous diary on this date in 1660	1-Jan.

It's what you wear to protect yourself against the effects of the device seen here:	Sunglasses.

"Cool" cat seen here:	Ocelot.

Some 18th C.

chairs had footrests to accommodate the swollen feet of sufferers from this disease	Gout.

(Audio clip in Italian from opera about clowns)	"Pagliacci".

Up on the highwire you might wear this bodysuit named for a famous 19th century trapeze artist	Leotard.

"My Name Escapes Me" is "The Diary of A Retiring Actor" by this portrayer of Obi-Wan Kenobi	Sir Alec Guinness.

Actor in common to the coming-to-California films "True Romance" & "Kalifornia"	Brad Pitt.

It "coughs" out sediment by clapping its shell shut	Oyster.

China & India provide many of the "imports" in the name of this Texas-based home furnishings retailer	Pier 1 Imports.

("La Dona e Mobile")	"Rigoletto".

This term for artillery fragments is named for a British officer who invented a new kind of shell	Shrapnel.

This creator of Peter Rabbit devised a private code for the journals she kept in her youth	Beatrix Potter.

1996's "Trainspotting" was about the underground drug life in this city	Edinburgh.

They might swing through the trees asking "What's Sumatra?  Nothing, what's Sumatra with you?"	Orangutan.

Type of chair seen here named for its 20th C.

designer:	Eames Chair.

("Triumph March")	"Aida".

This food poisoning bacteria is named after the scientist who identified it, not a fish	Salmonella.

The anonymous author of this diary took her title from the Jefferson Airplane song "White Rabbit"	"Go Ask Alice".

In this 1989 film, Eddie Murphy was the adopted son of a 1930s nightclub owner played by Richard Pryor	Harlem Nights.

When the giraffe invites all its taxonomic "family" to a party, this is the only animal that shows up	Okapi.

In 1991 Charles Hall sued Aqua Queen & other companies for infringing his patent on this furniture item	the waterbed.

She must have been hairy, as this hairstyle is named for the big-haired mistress of a French emperor	Pompadour.

When "60 Minutes" premiered, this man was U.S.

president	Lyndon B.

Johnson (show premiered Sept.

24, 1968).

Appropriately, this '80s band sang, "You can't go on thinking, nothing's wrong, who's gonna drive you home tonight?"	The Cars.

A piece that makes it to your foe's deepest row in checkers can be replaced with one of these "royal" ones	a king.

In October 1967 in Tehran, he crowned himself Light of the Aryan Race, among other things	the Shah (Mohammed Reza Pahlavi).

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from Girls and Boys Town in Omaha, NE.) After becoming a parish priest in O'Neill, Nebraska, he founded Boys Town near Omaha	Father (Edward) Flanagan.

This city, first mentioned in 912, is the seat of Britain's oldest university, developed in the 1100s	Oxford.

As soon as corn is picked, its sugar begins to turn into this, so get it into the pot fast!	starch.

2 members of this '70s "Ramblin' Man" band died in bike crashes, a year apart & within 3 blocks of each other	The Allman Brothers Band.

When companies do this to their stock, they replace outstanding shares with multiple new ones	a split.

Headed by Chief Justice Charles T.

Wells, the Supreme Court of this state was in the news in November 2000	Florida.

Not just a noted NYC psychiatric hospital, it's Nebraska's oldest town, established around 1822 as a fur-trading center	Belleview.

Researchers estimate its construction on Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire took about 30 million man-hours	Stonehenge.

In 1990 this company expanded its Seattle HQ & built a new roasting plant	Starbucks.

"Fun", "sleazy" & "raucous" are under "moods" at AllMusic.com for this metal band co-founded by Tommy Lee	Mtley Cre.

The "arthro" in "arthroplasty" refers to these body parts that are replaced with stainless steel or plastic ones	joints.

In October 1983 the U.S.

invaded this Caribbean country, officially to protect American medical students there	Grenada.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the University of Nebraska.) Before going to Congress, he strode this field for 25 years as Nebraska's head coach, and the field is now named for him	Tom Osborne.

In 1964 a Shakespeare center was opened on Henley Street in this city	Stratford-upon-Avon.

This hotel & casino at 3000 Las Vegas Blvd.

South cashed out in 2006	the Stardust.

"Remember when we traveled 'round the world, we met a lot of people & girls", sang this Joey McIntyre boy band	New Kids on the Block.

George Williams founded the association familiarly known as this to replace life on the street with Bible study	the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA).

On Nov.

8, 1519 the sight of his forces made the Tenochtitlaners feel like they'd "eaten stupefying mushrooms"	(Hernndo) Corts.

One of the 2 vice presidents born in Nebraska; one in 1913, the other in 1941	Gerald Ford (or Dick Cheney).

You'll find the Cavern Club at 10 Mathew Street in this port city; how fab	Liverpool.

In WWI Germany introduced this chemical weapon, C4H8Cl2S	mustard gas.

"Welcome to Paradise"; tre cool drums for this punk-pop band who performed at 2005's Live 8	Green Day.

This cell-division process in which a cell's nucleus replicates is vital for repair & replacement of worn-out cells	mitosis.

In 1918 this date in autumn brought the signing of the armistice ending World War I	11-Nov.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from Omaha, NE.) I'm in a replica of the Omaha grocery a man with this last name started running in 1915; 50 years later, his grandson started running an investment business called Berkshire-Hathaway	Buffett.

Centenary Square, in the center of this city, is its main cultural center; Alabama has a city by that name as well	Birmingham.

It's a dessert made of eggs, sugar & milk, either baked, boiled or frozen	custard.

(James Lipton reads the clue.) The 19th century--more than 800 oil paintings and 700 drawings--yet  you sold but one in your 37 years.

Are you bitter?	Van Gogh.

"The Ryan Express"	Nolan Ryan.

Stravinsky enlisted the help of Cocteau for a Libretto based on Sophocles' play about this Theban king	Oedipus.

Hanoi, where this man died in 1969, has a museum devoted to him	Ho Chi Minh.

A nematode is a roundworm; a planarian's shape gives it this name	a flatworm.

I know Mike _____ his expense account, but I can't believe he'd steal legal _____ from the conference room	pads.

(James Lipton reads the clue.) In 1891, you sold 30 paintings to help finance your move to Tahiti.

How marvelous!	Gauguin.

"The Rocket"	Clemens.

George finds out Lennie has a dead mouse in his pocket in this Carlisle Floyd opera based on a 1937 novel	Of Mice And Men.

Totem poles & Noh masks are at the Pitt Rivers Museum, given on condition that Oxford hire a lecturer on this -ology	anthropology.

In colenterates like jellyfish, the cavity called the coelenteron has an opening called this--don't get too complex	a mouth.

Maybe Don needs to get more exercise; he _____ just from pulling up his _____	pants.

(James Lipton reads the clue.) You finished "The Sick Child" in 1886.

7 years later, the world would recoil from "The Scream."  Tell us about your pain	Munch.

"The Big Hurt"	Frank Thomas.

Verdi's work on this General's life opens in Cyprus; Shakespeare's tale begins in Venice	Otello.

"ANZACs in France, 1969" was a 2006 exhibit at a war museum in this capital city	Canberra.

In nat.

selection, a ref froggus trebekus has .5 relative fitness if it produces 1/2 as many of these as a pink one	offspring.

I liked that girl with the cute little _____ nose, so to have her _____ me really hurts	snub.

Yankee batting champ "Donnie Baseball"	Mattingly.

Titania & Puck play a part in the Carl Maria Von Weber opera named for this king of the fairies	Oberon.

A Durer collection is  highlight of this city's Kunsthistorisches Museum, built up by the Hapsburgs	Vienna.

In a fish's 2-chambered heart, it's the chamber that receives blood from the veins	atrium.

Chairman Mao was very resourceful when he built a seaworthy _____ out of a lot of old _____ lying around	junk.

"The Bird"--seen here--he was a national sensation in 1976	Mark Fidrych.

Disney World crowds might go nuts for this title knight, aka Roland, made famous by both Hande & Vivaldi	Orlando.

It's the set of museums that includes the Museo Pio-Clementino, exhibiting sculpture	the Vatican Museums.

The 2 main types of vascular seed plants are gymnosperms & these, 80% of known green plants	angiosperms.

I started to _____ in the hot sun, but I had to grab the _____ out of Ed's belt so he wouldn't score a TD	flag.

This 1954 book title refers to an impaled sow's head, an offering to the "beast"	Lord of the Flies.

(Jon of the Clue Crew presents from a staged office.)  A replica of this man's Oval Office desk includes gifts from the Georgia Democratic Party and from Hyman Rickover, his mentor in the Navy	Jimmy Carter.

Barry Bonds, among others, is currently trying to break this man's home run record of 755	Hank Aaron.

Cadets attend a dance at a girls' school in "Graduation Ball", a ballet set in this capital of Austria	Vienna.

A Black Molly or 2 would be perfect to keep this calming crib feature in your living room free from algae	an aquarium.

The Hoosac Mountains are a range of these "colorful" mountains located in Vermont	the Green Mountains.

Chat about this in your chat room: "chat" is merely a shortened form of this 7-letter word	chatter.

His presidential library is about 35 miles from the Kansas City, Missouri airport	Harry Truman.

This 7-time Tour de France champ said the 2006 NYC Marathon was the "hardest physical thing" he'd ever done	Lance Armstrong.

The 2000 ballet "Todo Buenos Aires" features different interpretations of this sensual ballroom dance	the tango.

Sit down in this chair with an X-shaped frame & a canvas seat, perfect for yelling, "Quiet on the set!"	a director's chair.

Seen here is Tenzing Norgay, standing on the summit of this mountain "because it's there"	Mount Everest.

This name for a work of art that you may carve in art class comes from the Latin for "to carve"	sculpture.

(Jon of the Clue Crew is at the wheel.)  In 1948, George H.W.

Bush and this young wife of his packed their belongings into a Studebaker and drove west to Odessa, Texas	Barbara.

From 1984 to 1992, 2 of the 3 players who won all the NBA MVP awards	Magic Johnson & Larry Bird (& Michael Jordan).

I may say "neigh!" if you do a pas de cheval, a ballet step that imitates this animal	a horse.

Chandeliers look great but nowadays don't usually use these items from which their name is derived	candles.

The Waianae Mountains in this U.S.

state rise up to 4,025-foot Mt.

Kaala	Hawaii.

If you say, "I'm eating a hot dog with" this, you could mean a chopped pickle topping or just plain enjoyment	relish.

His library has a desk that's an exact replica of the one that his son was photographed under in 1963	John F.

Kennedy.

In 1904 he became the first pitcher in the American League to throw a perfect game; now an award is named for him	Cy Young.

He designed sets & costumes for "Where the Wlid Things Are", a ballet based on his own beloved book	Maurice Sendak.

In the furniture sense, this synonym of "pride" is dressing table	vanity.

The Caucusus Mountains of Eastern Europe are predominantly found in this large country	Russia.

Someone who sees a crime is an eyewitness; someone who experiences it aurally is this similar word	an earwitness.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from Austin, Texas.)  At the dedication in Austin in 1971, he said that of all the words in his presidential library, the two that best express his philosophy are "man can"	L.B.J..

This Czech-born woman who retired in 2006 won a record 9 Wimbledon Singles Championships	Martina Navratilova.

The Carolina Ballet debuted a 2006 work based on this stormy Shakespearean shipwreck saga	The Tempest.

Wanna put your feet up? How about on one of these with a "Turkish" name	an ottoman.

Geological evidence shows that this 5,000-mile mountain chain may extend south into Antarctica	the Andes.

The name of these small towers often seen on castles comes from Old French for "small towers"	turrets.

William Booth founded this charitable "army" on July 5, 1865 in London	The Salvation Army.

This "American Idol" judge told one contestant, "you sounded like Cher after she's been to the dentist"	Simon Cowell.

The truant officer may come after you if you fail to do this	go to school.

In chapter 52 of this novel, a boisterous crowd is gathering for Fagin's execution	Oliver Twist.

This commerce site founded in 1995 now also owns Skype, Paypal, & Shopping.com	eBay.

As a noun, it's a synonym for "flower", as a verb, it's to blossom or come into one's own	bloom.

On July 20, 1861 the Congress of the Confederate States began holding sessions in this Virginia city	Richmond.

This ABC series set at Mode magazine is based on the hit Columbian telenovela "Yo Soy Betty, La Fea"	Ugly Betty.

It's the identification procedure that uses the kind of grid seen here	a line-up.

19th c.

author known for writing about a "venerable mansion" with "seven acutely peaked gables"	(Nathaniel) Hawthorne.

The first name of this company's search engine was Backrub, as it analyzed the back links pointing to websites	Google.

Synonyms for "crowd" include throng, flock & this word that can also mean an infatuation	a crush.

A July 17, 1917 royal proclamation changed the name of the British royal family to this, like a castle	Windsor.

This Neil Patrick Harris sitcom is narrated through flashbacks from the future	How I Met Your Mother.

This agency's criminal justice information services div.

has the fingerprints of more than 47 million people	the FBI.

People from the past appear to a brother & sister in "Rewards and Fairies" by this author of "The Jungle Book"	Kipling.

While a student at Northeastern, Shawn Fanning started this P2P music-sharing service that now gone legit	Napster.

In court you won't hear a lawyer say "remonstrance!" but this synonym	objection.

John Adams' dying words on this date in 1826 were that Thomas Jefferson still lived; John Adams was wrong	4-Jul.

Penn Jillette hosts this NBC game show about first impressions	Identity.

A counter-terrorism program is called "NYPD" this, another term for a police badge	Shield.

Modern novels with biblical titles include Jane Hamilton's "The Book of Ruth" & Toni Morrison's "Song of" him	Solomon.

After selling Broadcast.com to Yahoo! for more than $5 billion, this Dallas NBA team owner started HDNet	Mark Cuban.

Back in the 19th century, ladies didn't faint but did this 5-letter synonym	swoon.

In July 1893 this president underwent a secret operation to remove part of his jaw due to cancer	Grover Cleveland.

In its 1st episode, citizens of a Kansas town saw a mushroom cloud on the horizon & were cut off from the outside world	Jericho.

Not just a remark like "the soup's too salty", it's a formal charge a victim can swear out, leading to an arrest	a complaint.

Even Grendel would love Seamus Heaney's new translation of the Anglo-Saxon epic about this title geat	Beowulf.

Started in 2001, Verasun Energy has now become the second-leading producer of this alternative fuel	ethanol.

This synonym for "to seclude" is also a word for part of a monastery or convent	cloister.

The genus of this Asian animal is Ailuropoda, & its species name, appropriately, is melanoleuca	the giant panda.

When asked how he became a hero, this president remarked, "It was involuntary.

They sank my boat"	John F.

Kennedy.

This breakfast treat with deep pockets was introduced to Americans at the 1964 World's Fair	Belgian waffles.

Observations by astronomer James Elliot in 1977 discovered 5 of these around Uranus	rings.

One of the first printed books with illustrations was a collection of this ancient man's fables in 1476	Aesop.

In 1968 the MPAA rated a film adult by giving it this many Xs	1.

If you're on the road again in Texas, stop at Luck, this singer's world headquarters	Willie Nelson.

At the time of her 1937 disappearance she was married to publisher George Palmer Putnam	Amelia Earhart.

Thomas' is a brand of these, famed for their nooks & crannies	English muffins.

Of 84, 184 or 284, the length in years of one orbit by Uranus around the sun	84.

In 1964 this first lady made the first call to inaugurate the new commercial picturephone service	Lady Bird Johnson.

In a 2002 film, number of Xs on Vin Diesel's neck tattoo	3.

In June 2002 this "Men in Black" agent & Texas rancher was reported to be shopping for a horse farm	Tommy Lee Jones.

In 1881 Louis Tiffany & others decorated the first floor of this author's mansion in Hartford, Conn.	Mark Twain.

This cured meat is in the classic McDonald's Egg McMuffin	Canadian bacon.

Uranus' 2 largest moons share their names with characters created by this author	William Shakespeare.

In 1907 the Wall Street Journal declared Percival Lowell's photo of its "canals" proof of intelligent life	Mars.

Claudia Silva starred in an L.A.-area theater production of "Cuatro Equis", this many	4.

This world-famous cyclist named his home in Austin "Casa Linda" after his mother	Lance Armstrong.

In 1973 he resigned as governor of New York to found the Commission on Critical Choices for Americans	Nelson Rockefeller.

Actually an American recipe, this condiment may have been given its name because caviar was once an ingredient	Russian dressing.

In 1846 astronomers found this planet from the effects it had on Uranus' orbit	Neptune.

Nose art, referring to pictures on the noses of these, really took off during WWII	airplanes.

Without getting a tic-tac-toe on "Hollywood Squares" you could still win a game with this many Xs	5.

Man from Sugarland, Texas known as "The Hammer" in the U.S.

House of Representatives	Tom DeLay.

This attorney was the only representative of New York to sign the U.S.

Constitution	Alexander Hamilton.

Its other names include Poor Knights of Windsor & Pain Perdu (lost bread)	French toast.

He discovered Uranus as well as 2 of its moons	William Herschel.

The rights to 5 of Tom Kelley's red velvet photos of this actress taken in 1949 were put on eBay in 2001, but weren't sold	Marilyn Monroe.

Maximum number of Xs that can appear on one bowler's score sheet in one game	12.

This billionaire Texan was asked to testify on his Plano company's involvement in California's energy crisis	H.

Ross Perot.

Jean Duvet created a series of engravings depicting the hunting of this 1-horned mythical beast	unicorn.

The Wright Bros.' experiments in this type of chamber in their bicycle shop led to designs of their flyer's wings	wind tunnel.

His novels include "The Prairie", "The Pioneers", & "The Pathfinder"	James Fenimore Cooper.

Golden Cloud had great pull with Roy Rogers under this stage name	Trigger.

In the year prior to his death, Nero participated in these games in Greece	Olympic Games.

Soft woolen shoes for a baby	booties.

Francois Lemoyne painted the Hercules ceiling at this French palace & voila! became premier peintre du roi	Versailles.

Created in 1971 as the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, it's better known by this name	Amtrak.

She wrote "Jo's Boys" in 1886, a second sequel to her 1860s novel	Louisa May Alcott.

Buck, ridden by James Arness on "Gunsmoke", was later used by Lorne Greene on this series	Bonanza.

Nero's indulgences included poetry, acting & racing these vehicles	chariots.

An illegally made product, especially a musical recording	bootleg.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew paddling a canoe)  Some of the earliest canoes were this type of boat, made from a hollowed-out tree trunk	dugout canoe.

This "Ship of Fools" author won a Pulitzer & the National Book Award for her 1965 "Collected Stories"	Katherine Anne Porter.

The Pie was little Liz Taylor's horse in this classic	National Velvet.

Contrary to myth, no evidence exists that Nero played a fiddle, or anything else, while this happened	while Rome burned.

A hidden explosive device, it sounds like a snare for a tropical seabird	boobytrap.

In 1834 Delacroix painted the lush "Women of" this Algerian city "in Their Apartment"	Algiers.

Lighter than a Conestoga wagon, it was named for its white canvas covering which resembled the sails of ships	prairie schooner.

The movie "Yentl" was based on a story by him	Isaac Bashevis Singer.

Guy Williams rode Tornado as this hero	Zorro.

At age 16, Nero was proclaimed emperor by this military unit & immediately confirmed by the Senate	Praetorian Guard.

A government project of little value funded to gain political favor	boondoggle.

Talent ran in the family: this first woman to join the Impressionists was a granddaughter of the Rococo painter Fragonard	Berthe Morisot.

This Newfoundland capital is the easternmost terminus of the Trans-Canada Highway	St.

John's.

In 2001 this novelist & short story writer's "We Were the Mulvaneys" was chosen for Oprah's Book Club	Joyce Carol Oates.

Shakespeare has this king saying, "Saddle White Surrey for the field to-morrow"	Richard III.

According to Lewis Carroll, the snark was one of these, you see	boojum.

This 5-letter word can refer to one type of work by a composer, or to several works of different types	opera.

Canada	the United States.

The nickname of this woman from the Black Eyed Peas is just a shortening of her last name	Fergie.

Knowing it's from the Greek for "serpent" might turn you off this name of a doomed lass in "Hamlet"	Ophelia.

Turbulent rapids	whitewater.

Santa Rosa de Lima is honored with festivals each August 30 in this country where she's patron saint	Peru.

Ho Chi Minh is buried in this capital city	Hanoi.

South Korea	North Korea.

The stage name of this R&B singer born Shaffer Smith is a play on the name of a character in "The Matrix"	Ne-Yo.

Name a girl this after the "Merchant of Venice" heroine & she'll probably grow up to like fast sports cars	Portia.

Milk with butter & flour added used as a base in cooking	a white sauce.

The site of this city, now the seat of Saint Johns County, Florida, was visited by Ponce de Leon in 1513	St.

Augustine.

Ho Chi Minh helped start Vietnam's Communist Party & in the 1920s helped start this Eur.

country's Communist Party	France.

Denmark	Germany.

"Ordinary People" singer John Stephens took on this last name, the stuff that myths are made of	Legend.

If you give your son this villainous 4-letter name from "Othello", you're just asking for trouble	Iago.

Condition of heavy snow or fog during daylight in which visibility is lost	a whiteout.

You're a Slav to the study of language if you know that this alphabet bears the name of a 9th c.

saint	Cyrillic.

The trail bearing Ho's name was a series of Viet Cong supply routes mostly through this neighboring nation	Laos.

San Marino	Italy.

"Icky Thump" was a No.

1 modern rock hit for this duo	the White Stripes.

I'd think twice about naming your daughter this; she might turn into a shrew like in the play	Katherine.

A chess piece, or a company involved in a friendly takeover of another	a white knight.

It's the secret identity of the British detective known as "The Saint"	Simon Templar.

Ho Chi Minh was also known by the nickname Bac Ho, meaning this relative	uncle.

Brunei	Malaysia.

Brothers Chad & Mike Kroeger make up half of this rock band	Nickelback.

For an eighth child, preferably a daughter, this name from "Antony and Cleopatra" would be fitting	Octavia.

Down a shot & name this 1973 Burt Reynolds movie	White Lightning.

This Afro-Cuban belief system uses Catholic saints as representations of the spirit world	Santera.

Ho Chi Minh's real family name wasn't Ho, it was this, like many other Vietnamese	Nguyen.

In Jerome Robbins' "Celebration", couples representing 5 countries dance this, "step for 2" in French	pas de deux.

1967: "We rob banks"	Bonnie and Clyde.

D'Artagnan	Dumas.

Syria had to wait until 2006 for an American fast food franchise, this fowl-selling one	KFC.

It decreases for the first 6 miles of the atmosphere, then goes way up, way down & finally up again around 55 miles high	the temperature.

A recent, frightening addition to our world language: WMD	weapons of mass destruction.

"Fete Noire" was first presented in 1971 by the fledgling dance theatre of this Manhattan area	Harlem.

1975: "She turned me into a newt!"	Monty Python and the Holy Grail.

Harry Angstrom, aka "Rabbit"	(John) Updike.

Mansaf is this favorite meat cooked in a yogurt sauce	lamb.

Warm air flows deflected by the Earth's rotation create winds that were named this by business-minded mariners	trade winds.

Since 1871, they've aimed to please: NRA	the National Rifle Association.

In "Harlequinade" the hero tries to rescue Columbine with the help of the magical "La Bonne Fee", this in English	the good fairy.

1999: "Get in my belly!" (Second in a series)	Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me.

Esmeralda & Claude Frollo	(Victor) Hugo.

Sultan Ibrahim is a Mideastern name for red mullet, a type of this creature	fish.

At under 6,000 feet, this 7-letter layered type of cloud is one of the lowest	stratus.

Printer particular: DPI	dots per inch.

The ballet "Bhakti" features 3 Hindu gods including this "destroyer", whose wife, Shakti, dances for him	Shiva.

1999: "Excuse me, I believe you have my stapler"	Office Space.

Catherine Earnshaw	Emily Bront.

The leaves of mulukhiya resemble those of this vegetable; we hope Syrian kids don't turn up their noses at mulukhiya	spinach.

Pilots are leery of CAT, or clear-air this, which often occurs over mountains & around thunderstorms	turbulence.

You can bank on it: FDIC	Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

The 1969 ballet "Trinity" was inspired by the peace movement in this California university city	Berkeley.

1951: "Nature, Mr.

Allnut, is what we are put in this world to rise above"	The African Queen.

Paul Baumer, a young German soldier	Erich Maria Remarque.

To make eish al-Saraya or "Syrian dessert" you need this preparation made by steeping petals in liquid	rosewater.

From 30 to 50 miles up is this intermediate section of the atmosphere; it gets its name from the Greek for "middle"	mesosphere.

Like NAFTA, but farther south: CAFTA	Central American Free Trade Agreement.

64 paintings from the Met's founding purchase are still in its collection; over 1/3 of them are from this current European nation	the Netherlands.

They're the first 5 words of the psalm	The Lord is my shepherd.

J.P.

Hayes cost himself a 2009 spot on this tour by confessing to using an unapproved ball	the PGA tour.

In a silent one of these, the bids are written--none of that "do I hear..." business	an auction.

Sabin and Salk product	vaccines.

William Safire won this prize in 1978 "For Commentary on the Bert Lance Affair" ("Affair" being Lance's banking practices)	the Pulitzer.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from New Orleans, LA.)  This actor who founded Make It Right not only pledged $5 million, but moved his large family to New Orleans & threw himself into sustainable rebuilding	Brad Pitt.

"He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside" these	still waters.

In 2008 Central Wash.

players of this sport carried injured Sara Tucholsky of Western Oregon around the bases	softball.

The journal of this quiet type of institution gives an award for the one "of the Year"; in 2010 it was in Columbus	a library.

A tramp or wanderer	a vagabond.

Safire wrote, "A president's ability to deflect charges of sleaze...aimed at his administration" was a this-coated presidency	teflon.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from New Orleans, LA.) The "E" in insulated "Low-E windows" stands for this; the windows allow light through but prevent solar heat gain & block UV rays	emission.

These 2 items, "they comfort me"	rod & staff.

Mike Bossy & Alexander Mogilny have won the Lady Byng Trophy for gentlemanly conduct in this sport	hockey.

The type used for a trumpet or sax is more familiar, but string instruments can be muffled with this device	a mute.

A silk textile with a short, smooth surface, or the covering on deer's developing antlers	velvet.

In 2006 George W.

Bush awarded Safire this "presidential" item, the highest honor given to civilians	the Medal of Freedom.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from New Orleans, LA.)  A wood product called TimberSIL gives Make It Right homes durability; it endures, resists warping, & is a Class A fire retardant, due to being infused with this common transparent material	glass.

"Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of" these	mine enemies.

The chronicles of this hard-serving American include, in 2005, calling an opponent's shot in, costing himself the match	Andy Roddick.

No cell phone use is permitted on "quiet cars", begun in 2000 on this service's Philly-Washington run	Amtrak.

9-letter word meaning to waver between courses of action	vacillate.

Safire defined "the proof of guilt that precipitates resignations" as this 2-word term describing a discharged firearm	a smoking gun.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from New Orleans, LA.)  In a flood, a float house can rise on guideposts & is actually so light that it's weighted against winds; architect Thom Mayne compares it to this 4-letter beach structure, moving with the tide	a pier.

"Surely" these 2 quantities "shall follow me all the days of my life"	goodness & mercy.

This backcourt partner of Isiah Thomas on the "bad boys" of Detroit won the NBA's 1st Sportsmanship Award	Joe Dumars.

The name of this branch of monks known for keeping silent comes from a 17th century Cistercian Abbey	the Trappists.

2-word legal term for preliminary examination of jurors	voir dire.

At the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959, Safire corralled these 2 politicos into a mock kitchen & the 2 debated	Nixon & Khrushchev.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from New Orleans, LA.)  The architects who designed Make It Right homes all used the tradition of this type of home, suited to the narrow New Orleans lots with high ceilings to let heat rise	a shotgun shack.

Elected in 2008, president Dimitris Christofias of this divided island nation is the EU's only communist head of state	Cyprus.

An apple tree angrily slaps the hand of a Kansas girl trying to pick from it in this film	The Wizard of Oz.

Numerical title of Jeffrey Toobin's look "Inside the Secret World of the Supreme Court"	The Nine.

There's American Express & this "of America"	Bank.

In April 1875 the Library of Congress gained possession of his Civil War photographic plates for $25,000	Mathew Brady.

Giving up your seat to the lady proves that this medieval system is not dead	chivalry.

Lee Myung-Bak is its head of state; he makes the news a bit less often than his counterpart to the north	South Korea.

In the third film of this title guy's animated series, Fiona's planned attack on 2 tree/ guards doesn't make them happy	Shrek.

Don Piper describes his brush with death in "90 Minutes in" this place	Heaven.

It has a Supercenter on South 9th St.

in Salina, Kansas	Walmart.

Black photographer James Van Der Zee chronicled life in this NYC section for more than a half century	Harlem.

Part of a house that has its own professional sweep	a chimney.

Serzh Sargsian is its president, Tigran Sargsian is its prime minister	Armenia.

Treebeard rallies the Ents & goes after Saruman's forces in this second film in the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy	The Two Towers.

A vampire series by Kerrelyn Sparks is punningly titled "Love at" this	Stake.

Roy E., the son of its co-founder, died in December 2009	Disney.

He once said that his life was "colored and modulated by the great earth gesture of the sierra"	(Ansel) Adams.

In the Army today no one outranks General George W.

Casey Jr., because he's this	Chief of Staff.

Former Sofia mayor Boyko Borissov is now its prime minister	Bulgaria.

A tree snatches Robbie in this 1982 thriller known for the catchphrase "They're heee-reee!"	Poltergeist.

Pfounded in 18P49	Pfizer.

Her 1981 Rolling Stone cover shot of a nude John Lennon was taken hours before his murder	Annie Leibovitz.

You can "pet" this Southwestern plant, Salvia Columbariae	a chia.

It's prime minister Mr.

Tuila'Epa, won a silver medal in archery at the 2007 South Pacific Games	Samoa.

In M.

Night Shyamalan's "The Happening", the trees are mad at us, & Elliot Moore, played by him, must deal with it	(Mark) Wahlberg.

Its original purpose was to insure people on journeys	Travelers.

Mattias Klum's photo essays for this magazine include 2008's "Borneo's Moment of Truth"	National Geographic.

Deception or trickery	chicanery.

Meaning "rapidly", this term began in England, referring to the speed with which the mail was delivered	post haste.

Also called Trinity College, the university of this capital was founded in 1592	Dublin.

While Secretary of State from 1811 to 1817, he might have been asked, "What's up, doctrine?"	James Monroe.

On "Spin City" Michael J.

Fox played Mike; this actor who replaced him plays Charlie	Charlie Sheen.

In 1995 these married physicists were laid to rest (again), this time at the Pantheon in Paris	Pierre & Marie Curie.

Robert Delaunay is known for his colorful series of Cubist paintings of this French tower	Eiffel Tower.

Aykroyd's blueprints	Dan's plans.

Held each year in County Kildare, the Irish Derby is a famous event in this sport	Horse racing.

While Secretary of State from 1801 to 1809, he was president from 1809 to 1817	James Madison.

In 2000 this Oscar nominee joined the cast of "Ally McBeal" as a lawyer	Robert Downey, Jr..

In 2000, 25 years after his death, this country's last emperor Haile Selassie was laid to rest in a crypt in Addis Ababa	Ethiopia.

Oh oh!  Chauncey B.

Ives depicted this mythological woman seen here on the verge of opening a box	Pandora.

Sajak's Stetsons & sombreros	Pat's hats.

Reflecting its lush, beautiful countryside.

it's Ireland's gem of a nickname	"The Emerald Isle".

Through skillful negotiation, Secretary of State Martin Van Buren got the U.S.

this trade status with Turkey	Most favored nation.

Aliens abducted Mulder on "The X-Files", so Scully got partnered with this "Terminator 2" actor	Robert Patrick.

It was no laughing matter when this silent film legend's body was stolen from a Swiss cemetery in 1978	Charlie Chaplin.

Marcel Duchamp coined this term to describe Alexander Calder's moving sculptures	Mobiles.

The vistas seen from Ms.

Barrymore's home	Drew's views.

One of Ireland's most important exports, it's also Ireland's most popular brand of stout beer	Guinness.

As Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams told this country to govern Florida better or cede it to the U.S.	Spain.

This tap dancer has a recurring role on "Will & Grace" as Eric McCormack's boss	Gregory Hines.

Wayne Newton hopes to find the remains of this tribal ancestor in Britain & bring them home to her native Virginia	Pocahontas.

Conrad Witz depicted this wealthy queen with King Solomon in the 15th C.

work seen here	Queen of Sheba.

Harrelson's yummies	Woody's goodies.

Ireland's national coat of arms features this traditional Irish musical instrument	Harp.

He wasn't a Secretary of State, he was Andrew Johnson's Secretary of War in 1867 & 1868	Ulysses S.

Grant.

In 2000 this rapper-turned-actor joined the cast of "Law & Order:  Special Victims Unit" as Richard Belzer's partner	Ice-T.

Thomas Crawford's best-known work, "Armed Liberty", is the bronze atop the dome of this American landmark	U.S.

Capitol Building.

In Salzburg you can visit the graves of his parents & his wife Constanze; his own location is uncertain	W.A.

Mozart.

Hairdresser Vidal's woodwinds	Sassoon's bassoons.

It's the body part you're said to have if you've a knack for growing plants easily	a green thumb.

He said, "My mother was an ape, and of course she couldn't tell me much about it"	Tarzan.

Perhaps "imitating" Florida, in 1929 Arkansas chose this as its state bird	mockingbird.

For an active woman, 20 to 25 percent of her total calorie intake should be from this; don't go all Jack Sprat	fat.

1996: "Don't Cry For Me, Argentina"	Evita.

The "double" version of this card game for one requires 2 players	solitaire.

After protecting this territory during WWII, the U.S.

offered to buy it, but Denmark refused	Greenland.

In "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court", his character puts Hank Morgan to sleep for 1,300 years	Merlin.

Bob Hope claimed his mother saw his nose & cried that the doctor took the baby & left this bird	stork.

It's good to break a little this between friends--it supplies carbs & fiber	bread.

1995: "Exhale (Shoop Shoop)"	Waiting to Exhale.

In November 1996 Roy Jones, Jr.

knocked down Mike McCallum & won the WBC title in this division	light-heavyweight.

A political party organized after the Civil War, or a piece of U.S.

currency	Greenback.

He tells his 10-year-old sister Phoebe that he wants to be a "catcher in the rye"	Holden Caulfield.

Unit of Random House whose logo is seen here:	Bantam Books.

People with hypertension should diet & limit their intake of alcohol & this chemical element	sodium.

1991: "(Everything I Do) I Do It For You"	Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.

The American Academy of Pediatrics called smoking "The leading cause of" this oxymoron in the U.S.	preventable death.

Oh yes, this North Carolina city was the birthplace of O.

Henry	Greensboro.

Emma is the first name of this title character of an 1857 Gustave Flaubert novel	Madame Bovary.

The "sky" type of this songbird, of which Shelley wrote, may be gone from Britain by 2009	skylark.

The flavonoids in this may help prevent heart disease, so a "kiss" a day may keep the cardiologist away	chocolate.

1969: "Everybody's Talkin'"	Midnight Cowboy.

Roberto Benigni's film "Life Is Beautiful" is a beautiful example of this oxymoronic genre	tragic comedy.

A precocious redhaired little girl is the heroine of this 1908 children's book by Lucy Maud Montgomery	Anne of Green Gables.

This Sinclair Lewis real estate broker is a member of the Zenith civic booster club	George Babbitt.

An ounce of cheddar cheese has 200 milligrams of this, crucial to healthy bones	calcium.

1985: "We Don't Need Another Hero"	Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome.

This racket sport takes its name from the country home of the 19th century Duke of Beaufort	Badminton.

In the psychology of learning, its the retention of association; in Cats, its a showstopping song	memory.

Youll discover not gold, but a black mark, after rubbing this gold on porcelain	fools gold.

It brings out the worst in werewolves	a full moon.

The womans bicycle without the bar was created so women could ride while wearing these	a skirt.

Goddess of wisdom for whom Athens was named	Athena.

It was invented in 1911 by Hans Geiger	the Geiger counter.

According to psychoanalytic theory, its part of the personality which balances the id & superego	the ego.

A scratch test wont reveal a minerals allergies, but this property	hardness.

Michael Jackson and Neil Armstrong are both experts at this	the moonwalk.

A German circus performer has made the Guinness record book for riding a bicycle with this distinction	the smallest.

The popular dish moussaka is layers of ground meat & this vegetable	eggplant.

Number of different basic shapes in a box of Post Alpha-Bits	26.

Standard test of responding to a key word with the 1st words which come to your mind	word association.

Every week Cybill Shepherd & Bruce Willis have been doing this on ABC	Moonlighting.

This French company is known for making fine bicycles as well as cars	Peugeot.

The mainland of Greece forms the southern part of this peninsula	the Balkan Peninsula.

In 1842, Richard Owen coined this word for dinosaur	dinosaur.

Character from group therapy on old Bob Newhart show who checked into St.

Elsewhere this season	Mr.

Carlin.

Title of the following, it can be performed by a big bandleader or a nighttime Romeo	"Moonlight Serenade".

In the 1984 Olympics, Alexi Grewal won a gold medal in cycling for this country	the United States.

By tradition, the sons in a Greek family dont marry until this happens first	the daughters marry.

Whole number equidistant from 5 & 7	6.

Founder of individual psychology, he broke with Freud in 1911	Alfred Adler.

Moon shots referred to home runs hit by this Dodger over short left field screen in L.A.

Coliseum	Wally Moon.

1985 film that was a story of a rebel & his bike	Pee Wees Big Adventure.

The prosperous 5th century B.C.

in Greece is better known as this	the Golden Age (or the Age of Pericles).

While Bugs was introduced in Porkys Hare Hunt, Daffy was introduced in this cartoon	"Porkys Duck Hunt".

Its what chewable chocks were	vitamins.

Composers known as the 3 Bs	Bach, Beethoven & Brahms.

Until 1896, majority in this branch of Congress were 1st termers, now less than 10% are	the House of Representatives.

From Dutch kaban huis, meaning ships galley, in U.S.

it came to mean last car on a train	the caboose.

Profession of Rex Morgan	M.D..

Vanishing in the 60s, its what YUkon, KLondike & VAlencia were examples of	telephone prefixes.

In 1810, the same year as Schumann, this Polish pianist & composer was born	Chopin.

This councils members are the president, vice president, secy of state & secy of defense	the National Security Council.

Laboratory culture dish named for the German bacteriologist who invented it	a Petri dish.

Marmaduke is this breed of dog	a Great Dane.

Turning down ABA offer of 3,500 head of cattle & 40,000 acre ranch in 1969, he signed with NBA Bucks	Lew Alcindor (or Kareem Abdul-Jabbar).

Mendelssohn wrote a series of 49 piano pieces which were appropriately titled Songs Without these	words.

He, not the Attorney General, represents the government in cases before the Supreme Court	the Solicitor General of the U.S..

Chinese for work together, it was motto of U.S.

marine raiders in WWII	gung ho.

Migration of insects thru the air is classed as active or passive, depending on use of this	wind.

Dolly, Jeffrey, Billy & P.J.	the kids in the Family Circus.

The last #1 song of the 60s, it was Diana Ross last song with the Supremes	"Someday Well Be Together".

Vivaldi was known as the red priest due to his clerical rank & this	the color of his hair.

FDR appointed Frances Perkins, 1st woman cabinet member, to head this department	the Department of Labor.

Originally a brand applied to slaves & criminals, it has come to mean a mark of disgrace	a stigma.

The title of this Jim Unger comic refers to everyone in it, not just a single character	Herman.

In Understanding Media, he explained the Dodgers move to L.A.

& fishnet stockings	Marshall McLuhan.

Theres nothing fishy about his Trout quintet	Schubert.

In 1966, Supreme Court ruled the 24th amendment outlawed this tax on both federal & state levels	the poll tax.

Run-down part of town, from the rough forest paths along which newly-cut logs were dragged	skid row.

Largest North American wasp, it hunts tarantulas like a bird of prey	the tarantula hawk.

Creator of Beetle Bailey, whose name was defined in B.C. as a dead nightcrawler	Mort Walker.

Next to slots, Nevada casinos make more money from this game than any other, nearly $3/4 billion in 1985	blackjack.

As many as 5,000 pro-democracy demonstrators were killed in this city's Tiananmen Square	Beijing.

Pretty Belle falls for a prince who's been transformed into a monster in this 1991 film	Beauty and the Beast.

It's divided into 3 chambers: 2 auricles & 1 ventricle	the frog's heart.

Adam & Eve sewed leaves of this tree "together, and made themselves aprons"	the fig tree.

These cookies were introduced by Nabisco in 1902 in a small box imprinted to look like a circus cage	Animal Crackers.

A public recreation area devoid of light	a dark park.

Representative Jim Wright resigned this congressional office & his seat in the House	Speaker of the House.

Pop star Tiffany provided the voice of Judy for this film about a space-age family	The Jetsons.

It's attached at the front of the mouth so the frog can flick it out rapidly	the frog's tongue.

God guided the Israelites out of this country with a pillar of cloud by day & of fire by night	Egypt.

From 1910 to 1912 this popcorn confection came with prize coupons instead of the prizes themselves	Cracker Jack.

A cloaklike garment for a gorilla	an ape cape.

On Dec.

13, 1989 Pres.

F.W.

De Clerk met with this imprisoned African National Congress leader for the first time	Nelson Mandela.

One of the highlights of this film was Sebastian the Caribbean crab singing "Under The Sea"	The Little Mermaid.

The frog stores liquid waste in this organ & can reabsorb water from it in dry times	the bladder.

John 1:29 calls Jesus this animal "of God, which taketh away the sin of the world"	a lamb.

This snack cake, which turned 60 in 1990, was originally filled with banana creme, not vanilla	Twinkies.

An inexpensive Army vehicle	a cheap jeep.

Nicolae Ceausescu was deposed as dictator of this country & executed in 1989	Romania.

Cruella de Vil was the villainess who kidnapped this title brood	101 Dalmatians.

The pancreas & this 3-lobed organ provide digestive enzymes	a frog liver.

This wise successor of David is also called Jedidiah, meaning "Yahweh's beloved"	Solomon.

Nestle says over 125,000 tons of these chocolate chip cookies are baked in the home every year	Toll House Cookies.

A quick, casual kiss on the nape	a neck peck.

Vaclav Havel went from political prisoner to president of this country in 1989	Czechoslovakia.

This 1988 film told of an orphaned baby brontosaurus named Littlefoot	The Land Before Time.

The nictitating membrane is also called the third one of these	the frog's eyelid.

God instructed Noah to use this kind of wood to build the ark	gopher wood.

This almost cube-shaped candy was named for the developer's granddaughter, a "hefty" baby	Chunky.

A silent mob scene	a quiet riot.

Known as the "Father of Waters", this river drains an area of approx.

1,247,000 square miles	the Mississippi.

The constitution divides the government into three branches: Executive, Judicial & this	Legislative.

For her, 1st came "All In The Family", then came "Maude", the came "The Golden Girls"	Bea Arthur.

Some dancers get their kicks doing high kicks in this Radio City Music Hall chorus line	the Rockettes.

It's the holiday on which the Tournament of Roses & Mummers parades usually take place	New Year's Day.

In Act 1, Scene 1 of "Macbeth" this trio vanishes in "the fog and filthy air"	the three witches.

The westernmost and northernmost points in the U.S.

are both located in this state	Alaska.

A measure defeated in 1990 would have allowed states to prosecute persons who desecrated this	the American flag.

In 1934 he spent several months alone near the South Pole	Admiral Byrd.

19th c.

women exposed their petticoats when they did this naughty French dance also known as Le Chahut	the can-can.

Nation Fire Prevention Week always includes October 9, the anniversary of this city's 1871 fire	Chicago.

Soon after Hamlet finishes his "Alas, poor Yorick!" speech he sees this woman's funeral procession	Ophelia.

The Bluegrass region, an area of gently rolling pastures, covers the north central part of this state	Kentucky.

Though given 10 years for ratification, this amendment failed by 3 states in 1982	the Equal Rights Amendment.

The Victoria & Albert Museum in London has the original illustrations she did for her many kids' books	Beatrix Potter.

The 1786 Opera "Una Cosa Rara" featured one of the first of these Viennese dances	a waltz.

This Jewish holiday is celebrated on the first day of the lunar month of Tishri	Rosh Hashanah.

She says, "that death's unnatural that kills for loving" before Othello strangles her	Desdemona.

Lake Pontchartrain & St.

Bernard Parish form part of this city's northern & southern boundaries	New Orleans.

Because of its secretiveness, the American Party in the 1850s was also known by this name	The Know-Nothings.

He was the Senate's Minority Leader from 1980-87, then moved up to Majority Leader	Robert Byrd.

The basic floor pattern of this elegant 17th c.

French court dance evolved to resemble the letter Z	the minuet.

The night before the 3rd Monday in April, lanterns are hung in the steeple of this Boston church	the Old North Church.

"I am a very foolish fond old man", he tells his daughter Cordelia	King Lear.

Important dams on this river include Rock Island, Rocky Reach & Grand Coulee	the Columbia River.

In 1798 Congress passed these controversial laws dealing with foreigners & with inciting rebellion	the Alien & Sedition Acts.

The only country in the world today with a reigning Queen Bea	the Netherlands.

Late black choreographer whose American Dance Theatre became multiracial in the 1960s	Alvin Ailey.

Medieval Europeans believed that birds begin to mate on this day	St.

Valentine's Day.

Portia disguises herself as a male lawyer in this play set in Italy	Merchant of Venice.

The only VP to become president not immediately after his vice presidential term	Richard Nixon.

There's an active volcano on Sicily, an island that's part of this country	Italy.

Ben Gould & Samantha Becker roam the halls of Bayside High as part of "The New Class" on this show	Saved By the Bell.

In 2 classic survival stories, it's the last name of a Swiss family & the first name of Mr.

Crusoe	Robinson.

Rain heavily, or a tiny opening in the skin	a pour/pore.

The number of items in a dozen times the number of months in a year	144 (12 x 12).

The Time Almanac states "There is little reason to believe that the architects intended" this "to lean"	the Leaning Tower of Pisa.

It's the largest city in Utah	Salt Lake City.

The series finale of this Fox drama aired on May 17, 2000, 2 weeks after the last "Party of Five"	Beverly Hills, 90210.

The photo seen here is on the cover of an award-winning "photobiography" of this man	Abraham Lincoln.

Masculine, or letters & packages	male/mail.

The number of legs on a spider plus the number of legs on a fly	14 (8 + 6).

This constellation is also called The Twins	Gemini.

This Scandinavian country has 2 forms of its official language -- Bokmal & Nynorsk	Norway.

This wallaby's "Modern Life" takes place in O Town with his dog Spunky & his pal Heffer	Rocko.

Last name of sisters Emily & Charlotte, a 1-2 punch with "Wuthering Heights" & "Jane Eyre"	Bronte.

A walkway between sections of seats in a theater, or a small piece of land surrounded by water	an aisle/isle.

The number of sides on an octagon minus the number of sides on a hexagon	2 (8 - 6).

Room of the house in which you'd normally find a four-poster	the bedroom.

While many countries in Europe have been splitting up, this one got back together in 1990	Germany.

Alice is the housekeeper on this classic sitcom; Sam the butcher is her boyfriend	The Brady Bunch.

This 19th century American writer of scary stories also wrote the love poem "Annabel Lee"	(Edgar Allan) Poe.

A monetary gain, or one who foretells the future	profit/prophet.

The number of days in a week times the number of ancient "wonders of the world"	49 (7 x 7).

To make these on your own, cube day-old bread, fry in butter, oil & garlic, then bake	croutons.

The last British ship of convicts pulled into this Australian city's port in 1849	Sydney.

On this NBC sci-fi drama, genius Jarod was played by Michael T.

Weiss as a man & by Ryan Merriman as a boy	The Pretender.

In works of mythology, Ajax was one of the heroes of this country in the Trojan War	Greece.

Deserve, or a large decorative vase	earn/urn.

The number of events in a decathlon divided by the number of years in a decade	1 (10 / 10).

Odds are 1 in 3 that the American spud you're eating was grown in this state	Idaho.

Neptune also has these features, including LeVerrier & Adams; only Saturn's can be seen through a small telescope	rings.

"The Quest for Camelot" featured Pierce Brosnan as the voice of this Valiant Ruler	King Arthur.

A new ballet about this puppet who yearns to be a boy had it's U.S.

premiere in Atlanta in 2000	Pinocchio.

Supposedly, President Harrison is heard in the attic & Jackson haunts the Rose Bedroom in this house	the White House.

If you don't mind the cold, you can pan for this metal at Tankavaara in Finland	gold.

In a 1961 speech he said, "...ask not what America will do for you, but what together we can do for the freedom of man"	JFK (John F.

Kennedy).

It's been estimated that this planet contains about 70% of all the material in the solar system, excluding the sun	Jupiter.

Kathy Bates played the real-life "Unsinkable" Molly Brown in this Leonardo DiCaprio adventure	Titanic.

"Scrooge" is a festive holiday ballet inspired by this beloved book	A Christmas Carol.

This "Triangle" near Florida has been the site of numerous maritime disasters	the Bermuda Triangle.

While visiting the city of Agra in this country, don't miss the Agra Fort & the Taj Mahal	India.

This "Huck Finn" author wrote "Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example"	Mark Twain.

Because of its similar size, this planet is known as Earth's "twin"	Venus.

"The Prince of Egypt" featured Ralph Fiennes as the voice of this stubborn ruler	the Pharaoh.

In a Tchaikovsky ballet, this title character is awakened with a kiss	Sleeping Beauty.

It's the mysterious prehistoric structure seen here	a Stonehenge.

The International UFO Museum & Research Center is in this New Mexico city where some say UFOs have landed	Roswell.

This talk show host said, "I admire, respect & adore authors" when she was honored for her book club	Oprah.

This planet has more in common with Triton, Neptune's largest moon, than it does with any of the other planets	Pluto.

In "Sahara", set in this war, German soldiers attack Humphrey Bogart at a desert oasis	World War II.

"The Nutcracker" often features a pas de deux bythe prince and this fairy who rules the Kingdom of Sweets	the Sugarplum Fairy.

Thousands of years ago this legendary lost continent is believed by some to have vanished beneath the waves	Atlantis.

To visit Abraham Lincoln's birthplace, you have to go to this U.S.

state	Kentucky.

In 1944 she wrote in her diary, "In spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart"	Anne Frank.

(All right players, take a look at the monitor, and here's Bill Nye, the Science Guy:)  The dividing line between the light and the dark side of the moon is called this [puts on shades, as lights go out] "I'll be back."	the terminator.

In this famous film Scarlett O'Hara doesn't let the South losing the Civil War slow her down	Gone With the Wind.

"The Steadfast Tin Soldier" is based on a fairy tale by this famous Dane	Hans Christian Andersen.

This large dinosaur-like creature possibly lives in a large Scottish lake near Inverness	the Loch Ness Monster.

This British wax museum famed for its chamber of horrors now has a time-traveling ride in it, too	Madame Tussauds.

The preamble to the U.S.

Constitution begins with these 3 words	"We the People".

This young man who turned 18 on June 21, 2000 has a dog named Widgeon & a younger brother named Harry	Prince William.

Head to Odense, Denmark to see his childhood home & sculptures inspired by his fairy tales	(Hans Christian) Andersen.

They "Wish You Were Here": ____ Floyd	Pink.

In 1879 this was discovered when a scientist's food was found to be sweet from the residue of a coal tar experiment	saccharin.

The only country outside the British Isles where the Titanic ever anchored	France.

Ports lying on the banks of this sound include Bremerton, Everett & Tacoma	Puget Sound.

A non-rigid flexible dirigible	blimp.

To see the Great Bed of Ware mentioned in "Twelfth Night", go to this museum named for a royal couple	the Victoria and Albert Museum (Victoria & Albert accepted).

They'd like you to "Shake Your Money Maker": The ____ Crowes	Black.

G.E.

scientists looking for synthetic rubber during WWII discovered this toy that lifts images off a page	Silly Putty.

Block Island Sound separates Block Island from this tiny state's mainland	Rhode Island.

"I'll Go Home With Bonnie Jean" is one of many lively songs in this Lerner & Loewe musical	Brigadoon.

Have a homey lunch at this author's Salinas, California birthplace; it's now a restaurant	John Steinbeck.

Leaders of a "Seven Nation Army": The ____ Stripes	White.

To spite a customer who complained the tubers were too thick, chef George Crum created what became this treat	potato chips.

This happened between the third & fourth funnel, a fact no one knew until the Titanic was found in 1985	it broke in half.

This state's outer banks create Pamlico Sound, the largest lagoon on the East Coast of the United States	North Carolina.

This period lasted from about 3500 to 1500 B.C.	the Bronze Age.

Chat about Lady Chatterley at this author's birthplace museum in Nottinghamshire	D.H.

Lawrence.

They're "Under The Bridge": ____ ____ Chili Peppers	Red Hot.

This product was born when a new 3M jet-fuel hose material spilled on shoes & made them waterproof & stain-resistant	Scotchgard.

The first warning of the iceberg came at 11:40 P.M.

from Fred Fleet, the lookout in this platform high above the deck	the crow's nest.

The islands in Australia's Yampi Sound are rich in hematite, an ore of this metal	iron.

This U.S.

government department is abbreviated B.I.A.	the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

Perhaps you'll draft your Nobel Prize acceptance speech at NYC's Algonquin Hotel, as this Mississippi man did in 1950	Faulkner.

Hard rockers "Burnin' For You": ____ ____ Cult	Blue yster.

The idea for this device occurred when a magnetron melted a candy bar in Raytheon engineer Percy Spencer's pocket	the microwave.

Gates prevented 700 of these passengers from getting up to the main deck, though they didn't stop Leo in the movie	third class.

Antarctica's McMurdo Sound was discovered in 1841 by this Brit who has a nearby sea & ice shelf named for him	(Sir James Clark) Ross.

Meaning a noisy commotion, it may derive from "baruch habba", a loud traditional greeting at a synagogue	brouhaha.

The Arch of the Emperor Titus in Rome heralds his conquest of this city in 70 A.D., ending the Jewish revolt	Jerusalem.

1969 film in which Paul Newman tells Robert Redford, "Boy, I got vision, and the rest of the world wears bifocals"	Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reads from near a fountain on Catalina Island, CA.)  In 1919 this chewing gum magnate bought Catalina & built it into a world-class resort	(William) Wrigley.

Saddler's pliers were created for gripping this material	leather.

"Parla come mangi", literally "speak the way you" do this, means to speak simply & clearly	eat.

Traditional Highland dress includes a wide belt, presumably holding up this	a kilt.

He was caesar & emperor when Jesus was born	Augustus.

Newman played Brick opposite Liz Taylor's Maggie in this film adaptation of a play	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.

Movies shot on Catalina include this 1935 Oscar winner starring Clark Gable & Charles Laughton	Mutiny on the Bounty.

This word for a step in sewing a garment is also found paired with "hawing"	hemming.

Literally "good day", it's the basic Italian hello	buon giorno.

The hour for mixed drinks, or the type of short evening dress appropriate then	cocktail.

AKA the Flavian Amphitheatre, this ancient structure was begun by the Roman emperor Vespasian around 72 A.D.	the Colosseum.

Paul Newman played "Fast" Eddie Felson in these 2 movies	The Hustler & The Color of Money.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from a hillside on Catalina Island, CA.)  One of Catalina's most famous residents was this author of "Riders of the Purple Sage", who built a home here in 1926	(Zane) Grey.

If you apply pieces of one material to another, you're practicing this craft, from the French for "apply"	appliqu.

The divine "Don Giovanni" duet "La ci darem la mano" means "There, you'll give me" this	your hand.

In 1953 the Witty Brothers promoted the first suit made of this by having a model wear it for 67 straight days	polyester.

According to legend, this unhinged Roman emperor made his horse a priest & a consul	Caligula.

Film in which washed-up lawyer Newman redeems himself by taking a medical malpractice case to trial	The Verdict.

Catalina had Southern Calif.'s first golf course; from 1931 to 1955 it hosted a tournament named for this Ga.

great	Bobby Jones.

With drying, drilling & maybe decorating, a gourd can be made into one of these, perhaps for a purple martin	a birdhouse.

From an Italian word for "grape stalk", it's brandy distilled from the remains of grapes after pressing	grappa.

2-word, somewhat contradictory-sounding term for the NBA's player dress code that allows dress slacks or khakis	business casual.

The chief figure in 2 books by Robert Graves, this emperor may have been poisoned by his fourth wife	Claudius.

Newman played Irish mob boss John Rooney in Depression-era Chicago in this 2002 film	Road to Perdition.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from on high on Catalina Island, CA.)  Catalina's only city shares its name with this island of the King Arthur legends	Avalon.

The tole type of this decorative activity was originally done on tin utensils but now uses lots of surfaces	painting.

If you're not going sinistra or destra, you're going sempre diritto, meaning this	always straight.

Scarlett O'Hara is introduced wearing a "tightly fitting basque", this upper part of a dress	the bodice.

Started in 1988 for this city's 75th anniversary, a Springtime Flower Festival in September shows off its Commonwealth Park	Canberra, Australia.

If you're getting engaged, consider a visit to Netanya, a world center for cutting & polishing these	diamonds.

A holiday standard: key rut	turkey.

Washingtonians refer to the Francis Scott Key Bridge over this river as "The Car-Strangled Spanner"	the Potomac.

In astrological notation, this sign is represented by 2 fish	Pisces.

In 1979 this chain introduced its Happy Meal	McDonald's.

"Snakes.

Why'd it have to be snakes?"	Raiders of the Lost Ark.

Sde Boker, one of these cooperative communities, was the retirement home of first prime minister David Ben-Gurion	kibbutz.

A big African: to Chris	ostrich.

Part of Key's solution to this problem was helping found the American Colonization Society	slavery.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew at the chalkboard)  It's the classic game being represented here	chess.

P.F.

Chang's is an upscale bistro specializing in the cuisine of this country	China.

"Get off my plane!"	Air Force One.

This port city on & around Mount Carmel has been compared to San Francisco, its sister city	Haifa.

A head-banger: cowpoke red	woodpecker.

Sent to this city in September 1814 to secure a prisoner exchange, Key got stuck near there during an attack	Baltimore.

In the 1800s this Frenchman also developed a musical notation system for blind musicians	Louis Braille.

Offering "Home Style Meals" & a line of frozen entrees, this chain is headquartered in Colorado, not Massachusetts	Boston Market.

"I didn't kill my wife!"	The Fugitive.

In 1961 this Israeli airline set a record for the longest nonstop commercial flight, New York to Tel Aviv	El Al.

A city dweller: ego nip	pigeon.

James Lick of observatory fame was responsible for the Key Memorial in this San Francisco park	Golden Gate Park.

In physics notation the speed of light is symbolized by this letter in lower case	c.

"Dip Into Something Different" at the Melting Pot, found across the nation, & specializing in this Swiss dish	fondue.

"Replicants are like any other machine -- they're either a benefit or a hazard"	Blade Runner.

Home to spectacular ruins, Caesarea was founded around 20 B.C.

& named for this Caesar	Augustus.

A front yard favorite: I'm no flag	flamingo.

Key's brother-in-law & law partner Roger B.

Taney served as this from 1836 to 1864	Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.

Named for its inventor, Labanotation is a notation system for this so you know when to do a fouette	dance.

Featuring the Famous Bloomin' Onion, this restaurant also offers a Joey Menu for kids	Outback.

"Something wrong with buttons?...got anything against zippers?"	Witness.

This central state produces more cheese than any other	Wisconsin.

This term for a knight's apprentice is also the name of a bobbed, usually jaw-length hairstyle	page boy.

She's played Phoebe Buffay on one primetime series & Phoebe's twin sister Ursula on another	Lisa Kudrow.

An area in Central Park dedicated to the memory of John Lennon is named for this Beatles song	"Strawberry Fields Forever".

Though he's lived for many years in the U.S., architect Frank Gehry was born in this Ontario city of 4.5 million	Toronto.

It's a shorter way of saying Los Angeles International Airport	LAX.

This state produces more lobsters than any other	Maine.

This female ice skater lent her name to a wedge haircut she made popular during the 1976 Winter Olympics	Dorothy Hamill.

In 1983 Apple introduced the Lisa personal computer, the first PC with one of these controls	a mouse.

Michael Stipe formed this "Man on the Moon" band in Athens, Georgia	R.E.M..

Frank Gehry's "Easy Edges" line built furniture out of this stuff in which your furniture usually arrives	cardboard.

From Middle High German, this Yiddish word means "salmon"	lox.

Orange you glad to know that this state leads the U.S.

in citrus production	Florida.

Dudes, it's the "fishy" hairstyle worn by David Spade in "Joe Dirt"	the mullet.

Lisa Guerrero is the sideline reporter for this popular weekly sports event	Monday Night Football.

1984's "Jump" was the first No.

1 hit for this group that features brothers Alex & Eddie	Van Halen.

The Gehry-designed Nationale Nederlanden Building is informally known as this film dancing pair	Fred & Ginger.

This "Tax" is found on a Monopoly board	Luxury Tax.

It leads the states in apple production	Washington.

The short hairstyles worn by the men who fought the Cavaliers in 17th C.

England earned them this name	the Roundheads.

She's the popular sports celebrity seen here	Lisa Leslie.

The title of Falco's biggest hit mentions this fellow Austrian musician	Mozart ("Rock Me Amadeus").

The Guggenheim Museum in this city of Spain's Basque region is one of the best-known structures designed by Gehry	Bilbao.

This city of east central Egypt is the southern half of the site of ancient Thebes	Luxor.

This West Coast state procuces the most wind-generated energy	California.

From the Latin for "to clip", it's the shaved patch on the crowns of the heads of some monks	tonsure.

In 1997 Lisa Pollak won a Pulitzer Prize reporting for this Baltimore newspaper where H.L.

Mencken once worked	the Baltimore Sun.

His innovations include multitrack recording, overdubbing & the solid-body electric guitar	Les Paul.

In 1989 Gehry was awarded this prize commonly referred to as "The Nobel of Architecture"	The Pritzker Prize.

From the Greek for "of words", it's all the words belonging to a particular branch of knowledge	lexicon.

A grandson of Man O' War, he defeated his uncle in a famous matchup November 1, 1938	Seabiscuit.

This transparent membrane in the eye covers the iris & has no blood vessels	the cornea.

"...don't make it bad, take a sad song and make it better"	Jude.

There's an old expression that says these "never prosper"; remember that	cheaters.

It's a long rope with a loop on one end, used to rope cattle	a lasso.

He followed Garfield as president	Chester Arthur.

The mauve flowers of the Paulownia tree adorn the highest grade of the Order of the Rising Sun award of this country	Japan.

This vein's name comes from the Latin for "collarbone"	the jugular.

"...and don't you come back no more, no more, no more, no more"	Jack.

Line that precedes "they simply fade away" in a British army song	Old soldiers never die.

This term for the sex drive comes from the Latin for "lust"	libido.

Go to Flushing Meadows & see the 22,547-capacity stadium named for this man	Arthur Ashe.

First obtained from aniline, the color mauve was the first commercially successful synthetic this	a dye.

The head of the femur fits into the acetabulum, a socket in this pelvic bone	the hip bone.

"There stood a log cabin made of earth and wood, where lived a country boy named..."	Johnny B.

Goode.

"He that fights and runs away may" these 5 words "but he that is in battle slain will never rise to fight again"	live to fight another day.

How low can you go?  Perhaps to this place on the border of heaven or hell	limbo.

His father was Uther Pendragon	King Arthur.

Not much mauve but lots of gray in the paintings of Anton Mauve, a member of The Hague school in this country	the Netherlands.

The base of the fibula forms the outer projection of this joint	the ankle.

"Trouble ahead, trouble behind, and you know that notion just crossed my mind" (Now we see who's the Deadhead)	Casey Jones.

In his "Ballad of East and West", this Brit wrote, "east is east and west is west and never the twain shall meet"	(Rudyard) Kipling.

The opposite of staccato, it's a direction to play music smoothly	legato.

Author of "3001: The Final Odyssey"	Arthur C.

Clarke.

Bella Donna Mauve is in the Color Riche line of these made by L'Oreal	lipsticks.

A ringlike muscle called the pyloric sphincter lies at the end of this, leading into the duodenum	the stomach.

In a Pearl Jam tune this boy "spoke in class today"	Jeremy.

Shelley said of this, "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!  Bird thou never wert!"; Wordsworth said they "soar but never roam"	a skylark.

This term for any man who seduces & deceives women comes from a character in the 18th century play "The Fair Penitent"	lothario.

For 50 seasons this Boston-born man was director of the Boston Pops	Arthur Fiedler.

"Madame de Mauves" was an 1874 novel by this expatriate American	Henry James.

These islands famous for their ponies form the northernmost part of Scotland	the Shetlands.

Donna Douglas played this "Beverly Hillbillies" gal on TV & Erika Eleniak played her in the 1993 movie	Elly May.

This imposing American landmark is seen here as it looked in 1876	the Washington Monument.

Lincoln once said not to "swap" these "while crossing a stream"	horses.

After the Battle of Waterloo, he said, "Nothing except a battle lost can be half so melancholy as a battle won"	Wellington.

3 housing units all under one roof	a triplex.

Portuguese sailors originally named this island in the South China Sea Ilha Formosa, "beautiful island"	Taiwan.

In 1963 she co-wrote "Ring of Fire" with Merle Kilgore	(June) Carter (Cash).

Successful "Little" author seen here	(Louisa May) Alcott.

This type of "son" holds a state's convention votes together but is not a serious candidate for presidency	a favorite son.

John Millington Synge wasn't born on Dublin's Synge St.; this other 3-named playwright was	George Bernard Shaw.

Adjective meaning able to bend & snap back readily without breaking	flexible.

The Leeward Islands are among the "Lesser" of these islands; Cuba & Jamaica are among the "Greater"	the Antilles.

Patricia Clarkson was nominated for an Oscar for "Pieces of" this title gal played by Katie Holmes	April (Burns).

Future leader of the UK seen here on the right in the 1880s	Churchill.

A "strict" one of these 15-letter words tends to interpret the Constitution literally	a constructionist.

This red-haired beauty born in the Dublin suburb of Ranelagh played Natalie Wood's mother in "Miracle on 34th Street"	Maureen O'Hara.

By profession, Noah Webster was one of these	a lexicographer.

In the Caribbean this island is partnered with Nevis	St.

Kitts.

This MGM star and wife of Dick Powell is seen here	June Allyson.

This Russian seen here set the table for future chemists	Mendeleyev.

According to the League of Women Voters, an "empty chair" one of these should be canceled	debates.

His first major satire, "A Tale of a Tub", was published in 1704	Swift.

Elaborate in structure or by nature	complex.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  Because they surround Delos, the sacred birthplace of Apollo & Artemis, this island group derives its name from the Greek word for "circle"	the Cyclades.

Pernilla August once worked with Ingmar Bergman, but we know her best for playing Shmi in the fourth film in this series	the Star Wars series.

Pictured here around 1890, he was the original "iron" man	(Otto von) Bismarck.

Saddle up & give us this 5-letter term for an added provision that may not be germane to the purpose of a bill	a rider.

This "Babes in Toyland" composer helped found the organization ASCAP in 1914	Victor Herbert.

A light transparent weather-resistant man-made thermoplastic	Plexiglas.

This character said, "I will live in the past, the present, and the future.

The spirits of all three shall strive within me"	Ebenezer Scrooge.

The layers of the skin are the epi-this, the this & the hypo-this	the dermis.

This Giants outfielder is the only player in history to receive the MVP award 4 consecutive years, 2001 to 2004	(Barry) Bonds.

Barry Manilow wrote the jingle that had us "stuck on" this brand	Band-Aid.

It's decorated in December: SEARCH, SET, TRIM	Christmas tree.

He obtained 1,093 patents, the most the U.S.

Patent Office has ever issued to one person	(Thomas) Edison.

Wanna live in this city, 90210? in July 2008 the median home price there was $2.3 million	Beverly Hills.

The uvea, the eye's middle layer, includes this contractile diaphragm, the colored part of the eye	the iris.

In 1980 this boxer came out of retirement to fight Larry Holmes & then Trevor Berbick; he lost both bouts	(Muhammad) Ali.

In 1932 George Blaisdell developed this cigarette lighter in Bradford, Pennsylvania	Zippo.

A "high" time in art: SIENNA ACRES	Renaissance.

In 1989 George H.W.

Bush appointed him to the U.S.

Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia	Clarence Thomas.

Originally the letters in this landmark were 30 feet wide & 50 feet tall, & had 4,000 20-watt light bulbs	the Hollywood sign.

Each wrist has 8 of these bones, also the name of a tunnel in the wrist	the carpals.

In 1962 this country's Dawn Fraser became the first woman swimmer to break one minute in the 100-meter freestyle	Australia.

Dr.

Joseph Lawrence & Jordan Lambert invented this bad-breath-busting product in 1879	Listerine.

A Texan battle cry: A MEMORABLE TERM, EH?	Remember the Alamo.

In 1952 this poet told us to "Rage, rage against the dying of the light"	Dylan Thomas.

Good times are Bruin in this district, home to UCLA, where John Wooden was a "wizard"	Westwood.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows an anatomical diagram on the monitor, then puts her heel down.)  The soleus and gastrocnemius, two major muscles of the calf, act like a lever system with this largest tendon to lift or lower the heel	the Achilles tendon.

In the 1960s he won 7 major tournaments, more than any other golfer	(Jack) Nicklaus.

This yogurt brand is named for founder Isaac Carasso's son Daniel	Dannon.

He co-wrote "South Pacific": MASS ROMANTIC HERE	Oscar Hammerstein.

His 1947 novel "Doctor Faustus" symbolically paralleled the rise of Nazism	Thomas Mann.

You can hit the Comedy Store, House of Blues, Whisky A Go Go & the Viper Room on this "strip" of L.A.	Sunset Strip.

Familiar to pitchers, the group of muscles called this includes the subscapularis muscle	the rotator cuff.

Iowa state's Dan Gable won 2 NCAA titles in this sport & then coached Iowa to 15 team titles from1978 to 1997	wrestling.

The logo of this outdoor brand is seen here	Coleman.

This Internet service was big in the '90s: I ONCE RAN EMAIL	America Online.

This late medieval Christian spiritual writer is the probable author of "Imitation of Christ"	Thomas  Kempis.

Originally called "Nuestro Pueblo" by the artist, it's the L.A.

landmark seen here	the Watts Towers.

In many cities "Jeopardy!" leads into this sister show	Wheel of Fortune.

The Norns are counterparts of the Fates: Urd represents the past; Verdandi & Skuld, these 2 things	the present & the future.

Times change: in 1990 a statue of this Russian was removed from a Bucharest square after 3 decades there	Lenin.

Excessive self-contemplation is called this anatomical gazing	navel.

Mark Antony called him "the noblest Roman of them all"	Brutus.

A stuffed pasta pocket (7)	a ravioli.

I pity the fool who doesn't know that this show led into "Remington Steele" on NBC's 1983-84 schedule	The A-Team.

Hymir was really hammered by the hammer of this god	Thor.

1913's treaty of Bucharest ended the second of these peninsular wars	the Balkan Wars.

Self, launched in 1979, is one of these	a (women's) magazine.

In the first line of "Twelfth Night", this is described as the "food of love"	music.

Beam, beacon & frequency preceder (5)	radar (or radio).

Sundays from 1984 to 1995, "60 Minutes" led into this CBS crime drama--guess Jessica finally got tired of writing	Murder, She Wrote.

The name Midgard, the world of humans, can be translated as this, a place familiar to Tolkien	Middle Earth.

In 1977 one of these phenomena devastated Bucharest, killing about 1,500 people	an earthquake.

Albrecht Durer's first known drawing, done at the age of 13, was one of these artistic efforts	a self-portrait.

In "Henry VIII" this cardinal bids "a long farewell to all my greatness"	Cardinal Wolsey.

Room or building in the round (7)	rotunda.

On Mondays in 1970, something called "The Silent Force" led into this longer-running ABC program	Monday Night Football.

Laerad is the great tree around which this hall of the slain was built	Valhalla.

This star of 1937's "The Last Gangster" was born Emanuel Goldenberg in Bucharest, Romania	Edward G.

Robinson.

Self-referential prefix before -didact, -suggestion & -biography	auto.

Much of the action takes place in the court of the Duke of Milan in this play with another Italian locale in its title	Two Gentlemen of Verona.

Boat race, Italian style (7)	regatta.

For the 2000-2001 season, "The Simpsons" led into this show that led into "The X-Files"--you might say it was...	Malcolm In The Middle.

This mischief-maker was up to his old tricks when he stole Freya's necklace	Loki.

In 1659 Bucharest became the capital of this principality	Wallachia.

Per the "American Psychiatric Glossary", this mania is "pathological preoccupation with self"	egomania.

Comparing "thee to a summer's day" in sonnet 18, the bard realizes that "Thou art more lovely and more" this	temperate.

South American ostrich cousin (4)	a rhea.

He was the only person who died during the Civil War to be featured on Confederate currency	Stonewall Jackson.

In 1863, this man from Wuppertal started a dye company that evolved into an aspirin-making giant	(Friedrich) Bayer.

1980: Jake LaMotta battles his way to the middleweight title	Raging Bull.

Hell, heaven or limbo	heaven.

All the letters in this state's name are found in the name of its Uintah County	Utah.

In 1916, he sold his first of more than 300 Saturday Evening Post covers	(Norman) Rockwell.

A bedtime nip of alcohol, or the second game of a doubleheader	a nightcap.

On the 50th anniv.

of Bunker Hill, this European was back on our shores to lay the monument's cornerstone	Lafayette.

1967: That's the sound of Newman working on the chain gang	Cool Hand Luke.

Vow, knight or grail	knight.

Ogemaw, Saginaw & Washtenaw are all counties in this state	Michigan.

In a classic "SNL" skit, Laraine Newman found this NYC landmark less than packed when covering the Jewish New Year	Times Square.

Thrush to judgment and name this type of bird seen here	a nightingale.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Gdansk, Poland.) Few noticed him start in 1967 as a Gdansk shipyard electrician, but many noticed him in 1980 when he became the leader of Solidarity	Lech Wasa.

2002: A young Maori girl defies tradition & mounts a cetacean	Whale Rider.

Happy, snappy or pappy	happy.

Name shared by the counties in which you'll find Disneyland & Disney World	Orange (County).

Established in 1875, this Louisville event is run annually on the first Saturday in May	the Kentucky Derby.

Any of the various plants of the family Solanaceae; some may be "deadly"	nightshades.

Giuseppina Strepponi, a prima donna in "Nabucco", married this famous Giuseppe in 1859	Verdi.

1977: After an experience with a UFO, an electric-line worker is drawn to a remote mountain	Close Encounters of the Third Kind.

Cozy, wax or quilt	cozy.

This state's Norfolk County disappeared in 1963 when it became part of the city of Chesapeake	Virginia.

Founded in 1932 as The Palestine Post, this morning paper appears daily, except for Saturday	The Jerusalem Post.

Get to the Bottom of this Shakespeare play, published in 1600	A Midsummer Night's Dream.

Although this king had already reigned for fifty-eight years, he's seen here in his coronation robes to add majesty.	Louis XIV.

2005: A group of teenage chicks share some trousers	The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants.

Fad, dad or glad	fad.

While many states have counties named Lincoln, this is the only state that has one named Snohomish	Washington.

At age 3, as Bubbles Silverman, this opera star sang on a Sat.

morning radio show, "Uncle Bob's Rainbow House"	Beverly Sills.

"Timely" 5-word nickname that describes Scandinavia north of the Arctic Circle	"Land of the Midnight Sun".

On May 7, 1915 German submarine commander Walter Schweiger gave the command to torpedo this British liner	the Lusitania.

This rapper & producer co-founded N.W.A.

& is the stepbrother of Warren G	Dr.

Dre.

Delicious "Doone" damsel (5)	Lorna.

This government employee was in the spotlight in the late 1990s for her conduct as a girlfriend of Monica Lewinsky	Linda Tripp.

The Talmud says "when" this "goes in, secrets are revealed" & on the Sabbath, Kiddush is said over a cup of it	wine.

This type of needlework gets its name from the French for "hook"	crochet.

In 1717 this pirate captured La Concorde & renamed it Queen Anne's Revenge; a year later it ran aground off N.C.	Edward Teach (Blackbeard).

"Doctor, doctor, give me the news, I've got" this Robert Palmer title affliction	"Bad Case Of Loving You".

Jack's "capital" surname (6)	London.

Before her 15 minutes expired, this gal who got mixed up with televangelist Jim Bakker got onto Playboy's cover	Jessica Hahn.

In this Asian religion, a lohan is not an actress but a holy person, & monasteries have images of lohans	Buddhism.

This word for any style of cooking is from the French for "kitchen"	cuisine.

The 1st ship built in the colonies by English settlers was built in 1607 on the Kennebec River in what is now this state	Maine.

He dealt with ophthalmological issues in the 1972 hit "Doctor My Eyes"	Jackson Browne.

A singable poem, perhaps "of the Last Minstrel" (3)	lay.

"The joke's over", said Simon Cowell about this "American Idol" singer with a unique rendition of "She Bangs"	William Hung.

The Southern Convention of this denomination split from the Yankees in 1845	the Baptists.

A term for a keepsake or memento, it comes from the French for "to remember"	souvenir.

The flagship of Oliver Hazard Perry was named for this captain who said, "Don't give up the ship"	James Lawrence.

The "Billboard Book of Top 40 Hits" describes this "Right Place Wrong Time" man as a "swamp-rock singer/pianist"	Dr.

John.

Imagist Amy (6)	Lowell.

Perhaps knowing her time was nigh, she asked President Bush to be removed as a Supreme Court nominee	Harriet Miers.

This 13th century Italian theologian was born in Roccasecca near the town of Aquino	St.

Thomas Aquinas.

This light tannish color gets its name from the French for "raw", as in raw vegetables	ecru.

In 1994, 9 years after it was hijacked by PLF members, this Italian cruise ship burned & sank in the Indian Ocean	Achille Lauro.

Despite its name, this synth-pop English band who gave us 1984's "Doctor! Doctor!" was a trio	The Thompson Twins.

Writer Wyndham (5)	Lewis.

A free week at a hotel chain would be apropos for knowing the name of this "Joe Millionaire" reality star	(Evan) Marriott.

Jainism, with 4 1/2 million adherents, was founded in this country by Mahavira, "the Great Hero"	India.

(Jon of the Clue Crew shows an animation on the monitor.)  This verb for one set of gears meshing with another set comes from the Old French for "pledge"	engage.

Once a top spy, he invented the mug shot seen on reward posters in the Wild West	Allan Pinkerton.

Going from rags to riches is what sociologists call "social" this, specifically the "upward" type	mobility.

In 1977 Chambliss, Randolph, Dent & Nettles took the field for this team	the Yankees.

On Sept.

9, 1948 the DPRK, aka North Korea, was established with this man as its supreme leader	Kim Il-sung.

Nov.

15, 2001: This pasta treat "discontinued as Franco-American relations break down"	SpaghettiOs.

This Brit coined "doublethink" & "Big Brother is watching you"	(George) Orwell.

Carroll's slithy nonsense poem (11)	"Jabberwocky".

Expecting my son to be a cop & my daughter to be a nurse is assigning these sex-based roles	gender roles.

From 1974 through 1981 the Dodgers fielded Garvey, Lopes, Russell & this third baseman, "The Penguin"	Ron Cey.

As the dictator of this city-state, Francesco Foscari ruined its army & economy by endlessly fighting Milan	Venice.

Feb.

20, 2006: This late "Feminine Mystique"  writer "honored with second-class postage stamp"	(Betty) Friedan.

In a 1605 prologue, this Spaniard tells the reader that he has written an "invective against books of chivalry"	Cervantes.

Jettisoned goods (6)	jetsam.

William H.

White put this word before "think" to mean conformity to consensus	group.

The 1908 Chicago Cubs featured Harry Steinfeldt & these 3 guys of yore	Tinker, Evers & Chance.

By murdering all his brothers around 1413, Mehmed I took power as the fifth ruler of this empire	the Ottoman Empire.

Aug.

9, 2000: Popular names for these include Shopwood, Storemont & Indianburialgroundbrook	shopping malls.

While at University College, Dublin, he wrote the essay "The Day of the Rabblement", attacking the Irish Literary Theatre	James Joyce.

Riding breeches (8)	jodhpurs.

A joint author on a paper, or someone who assists the power occupying his country	a collaborator.

The 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers sent out Hodges, Gilliam, Reese & this groundbreaking infielder	Jackie Robinson.

The pro-Soviet dictator Babrak Karmal came to power in this country after a 1979 invasion	Afghanistan.

From an issue in 2056: This island & commonwealth ceded to the U.S.

in 1898...

"Should it become our 63rd state?"	Puerto Rico.

This literary whiz' name is sometimes transliterated from Bengali as Ravindranatha Thakura	(Rabindranath) Tagore.

A joyful celebration (10)	jubilation.

A plant, animal or object that's the symbol of a clan; it's often taboo & was paired with "Taboo" in a Freud title	totem.

The 1975 Reds fielded Rose, Concepcion, Perez & this Hall of Fame second sacker, now a broadcaster	Joe Morgan.

A humble lawyer from Arras, in 1793 he became Head of the Committee of Public Safety & launched a bloodbath	Robespierre.

Sept.

12, 1928: This "It Girl" "to appear sleeveless in Oct.

Collier's; 'Besleeve yourself, strumpet!' clergy urge"	(Clara) Bow.

This French writer "steaked" a claim as "The Father of Romanticism" by writing such works as "Atala"	(Ren de) Chateaubriand.

Belligerent nationalist (5)	jingo.

His business card bore the Golden Arches & the titles "Founder" & "Senior Chairman of the Board"	(Ray) Kroc.

Instrument struck when a contestant failed on the "Original Amateur Hour"	a gong.

It's the Italian name for the country's biggest island	Sicilia.

Name this tragedy: "Love you." "Love you." "Speak.

...Nothing will come of nothing!" "Hmph!" "Hmph!" "Huh?  I should go mad!  Blbl-blbl-blbl-blbl-bl!  Oh, no life!  Oh!"	King Lear.

The USA's "E-Bomb" will disable grids & computers and reheat the enemies' lasagna by sending out these waves	microwaves.

One who steals by stealth: Thessalonians speaks of one "in the night"	a thief.

In 1886 he started his first successful business, the Lancaster Caramel Co.; the chocolate came later	Hershey.

This word ends the title of a 1941 Bill of Rights tribute program heard by 60 million, "We hold these..."	Truths.

Roman soldiers passed the time playing this game, the Italian version of lawn bowling	bocce.

This time, a comedy: "Beware my sting!" "She will be my chattel.

Ha ha ha!" "I'm starved!" [Snores] "Giddy from lack of sleep.

What is thy will, sir?" "Mm-wah!" "Ha ha ha ha ha!" "Ha ha ha ha ha!" "Ah!" "Ah!"	The Taming of the Shrew.

The "Storm Shadow" is a new British version of this type of low-altitude, radar-evading missile	a cruise missile.

A big fishing net, maybe in the river of the same name	a seine.

In the 1880s he built a town in Illinois to house employees of his sleeping car company	(George) Pullman.

Can't forget the sponsor--Jack Benny's opening line wasn't "Hello again" but this dessert "again"	Jell-O.

These thin tubes of pasta, Italian for "bridegrooms", are often baked	ziti.

Tragedy: "Victorious!" "Rue the tears I shed!" "Banishment!" "Son!" "Ah!" "Ha ha ha ha ha!" "Ha ha ha ha ha!" "Mad?  Not!" "Ugh!" "Ugh!" "Uh-huh!  Emperor!"	Titus Andronicus.

It's the Indian tribe in the name of the USA's AH-64D Longbow, the most advanced combat helicopter in the world	Apache.

It can mean "brief & forceful" or "resembling the inner core of a stem"	pithy.

Before founding his own corp., John K.

Northrop was chief engineer for this company & designed its Vega airplane	Lockheed.

In 2005 NPR revived this 1950s program in which people state their credos	This I Believe.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew gives us a sign linguistic demonstration.)  An 1832 book on the gestures of this southern city includes "Mm-wah, perfecto!"--& many others we can't show you	Naples.

Here's the title king of this play: "Plots have I laid.

Wear this ring!" "Oh, pretty!" "King!  Good-night." "Ow!" "Marriage.

Ah!" "Thank you."	Richard III.

The FA-18E/F is the "Super" version of this high-tech U.S.

Navy fighter jet with a wasplike name	a Hornet.

Teddy Roosevelt said "The credit belongs to the man" in this, "whose face is marred by dust & sweat & blood"	the arena.

Since founding Amazon.com in 1994, he's tried to make it "The Earth's most customer-centric company"	Jeff Bezos.

On April 3, 1936 a nation listened as Gabriel Heatter covered this man's execution	Bruno Hauptmann.

This 15th century movement may have first been named in a 1550 book, using the Italian word rinascita	the Renaissance.

Name this comedy: "Your oaths." "Not to see ladies." [All] "Hup!" [Gasps] [All] "Love." "We'll mark no words that wooers say for 12 months in the day." [All] "Hmm!" [All] "Oh!" "That's too long for a play."	Love's Labour's Lost.

With advanced capabilities, this unmanned air vehicle seen here takes its name from the Latin for "to plunder"	the Predator.

Greek for "word", it can mean the word of God	logos.

"American Prometheus" is a biography of this physicist who died in 1967	J.

Robert Oppenheimer.

The New York City ballet's first visit to this city's famous festival inspired the ballet "Scotch Symphony"	Edinburgh.

He perked up his career by letting Starbucks release his album "Memory Almost Full"	McCartney.

This drink consists of 2 ounces of vodka & 5 ounces of orange juice	a screwdriver.

In part due to fears of body snatching, his body was moved 17 times around his Springfield, Ill.

national monument	Lincoln.

Hey, you saps who think pneumonia killed President Harrison--I've got this kind of theory involving a group plan	a conspiracy theory.

The 1972 ballet "Printemps" premiered in the winter, but its name is French for this season	spring.

This '80s trio were "Spirits in the Material World" before the synchronicity of their 2007 reunion	The Police.

We recommend giving someone this figuratively if you must fire him; later he might have one to grind	the axe.

4 places claimed to be the burial site of this explorer, including crypts in Seville & Santo Domingo	Christopher Columbus.

The lady was quite overcome by this moisture exuded by the muscular estate gardener	perspiration.

Balanchine choreographed the leading role in "Allegro Brillante" for this part-Osage Indian ex-wife	Maria Tallchief.

"Who Knew" this colorful singer could be so "M!ssundaztood"	Pink.

"U Can't Touch This" bone, aka the malleus, just behind the eardrum	the hammer.

Kept for years in her husband's dining room, her embalmed body was buried in Buenos Aires in '74	Eva Peron.

Not a fraud scheme, the risk type of this puts more of your assets into the low-risk than the high-risk area	a pyramid.

The Motion Picture Association of America says this cost producers, theater owners, etc.

$18.2 billion in 2005	piracy.

Alexandre Dumas fils' tale about "The Lady of" these flowers bloomed as the ballet "Marguerite and Armand"	the Camellias.

This band is now part of the "Zeitgeist" after suffering "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness"	Smashing Pumpkins.

A light, stroking touch, or a dense growth of bushes	a brush.

Executed in 1915, this radical labor activist was cremated & his ashes mailed to labor unions all over the world	Joe Hill.

It's often set up by the wealthy for their kids, but California has a state children's one for poor folks	a trust fund.

Australia's Yellow Tail winery sells this on its own as well as in a cabernet blend	shiraz.

As a law student in St.

Petersburg, this man became interested in the arts, & in 1909 he founded the Ballets Russes	Diaghilev.

"Hybrid Theory", the title of this rock-rap band's first hit album, was one of the band's former names	Linkin Park.

Hit the backyard with this old term for a libertine	a rake.

This 19th century philosopher's body has been very utilitarian; it's on display at a university in London	Jeremy Bentham.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew shows an upward-tending graph with a deviant dip between March and May on the monitor.)  Named for the implication that it brought some rationality to an exuberant market, it's a downward move by generally rising prices	a correction.

This type of medieval play often shows the Virgin Mary coming to the rescue	a miracle play.

2004: Angry Greeks attack a fortified city-state	Troy.

This "colossal" island is the largest in Greece's Dodecanese archipelago	Rhodes.

Older brother Frank is thrilled to welcome this Sept.

5, 1847 baby; 10 days old & making guns with his tiny fingers	Jesse James.

1978: The wife of a soldier fighting in Vietnam works at a VA hospital & has an affair with a wounded vet	Coming Home.

On Jan.

19, 1966 this woman was elected the third prime minister of her country	Indira Gandhi.

This group of islands off the northern coast of France was the only British soil occupied by the Germans in WWII	the Channel Islands.

This king is thrilled by the birth of Mary, Feb.

18, 1516; there's still plenty of time to have a son--right?	Henry VIII.

Whether a surfin' one or a Pontiac, this term comes from the Swahili meaning "journey"	safari.

Jules Verne-Wilkie Collins sci-fi/detective novel about Civil War vets who want to shoot a cannon into a gem	From the Earth to the Moonstone.

1970: An historically correct re-creation of Pearl Harbor	Tora! Tora! Tora!.

You have to go through this ceremony in order to become a Freemason	the Third Degree.

This island nation's highest peak, Yu Shan, in the Chungyang range, is also called Mount Morrison	Taiwan.

Henry & Clara Ford are proud to announce the rollout of this model Nov.

6, 1893	the Edsel.

The word "okra" is West African; in the language of Angola, okra was called this, which to us is a soup or stew	gumbo.

Novel-poem in which Sal & Dean hitchhike through a yellow wood where the path diverges, making all the difference	On the Road Not Taken.

1936: Errol Flynn leads a cavalry unit into cannon, annihilation & everlasting glory	Charge of the Light Brigade.

Twice in the 1990s, he came in third in U.S.

presidential elections	Ross Perot.

A causeway connects this Persian Gulf nation with the Saudi Arabian mainland	Bahrain.

A 1906 announcement: dad Socrates & mom Penelope celebrate the launch of this new little ship	Aristotle Onassis.

Go where some men have gone before with this 4-letter term from the Afrikaans for "migrate"	trek.

Faulkner novel about Joe Christmas that's the Swedish playwright of "The Dance of Death"	The Light in August Strindberg.

1951: Erwin Rommel succeeds...

for a while...

in North Africa	The Desert Fox.

A member of the British Commonwealth, this country is the third-largest island in the Caribbean	Jamaica.

One of France's 26 regions, it doesn't count as an overseas one though it's 100 miles across the Mediterranean	Corsica.

James & Lady Blanche have a "declaration": the July 25, 1848 birth of this future foreign secretary & prime minister	(Arthur James) Balfour.

The marimba was popularized in Central America, but the word is from this sub-Saharan group of about 500 langs.	the Bantu languages.

In 2007 this 1962 American Nobel laureate became the first person to receive his own personal genome map	James Watson.

There's an annual footrace up its 86 flights of stairs	the Empire State Building.

Kevin Kline in "De-Lovely"	(Cole) Porter.

Often stuffed & baked, conchiglioni is jumbo pasta shaped like these	shells.

"Fish ladders" help salmon travel upstream over these man-made obstructions	dams.

In a children's playground chant, they're the 2 things that will "break my bones, but names will never hurt me"	sticks & stones.

Dangerous ones include hemorrhagic & scarlet	fever.

On the NYC subway this train will also take you to Harlem, but then it splits off & heads for Yankee Stadium	the B train.

Cary Grant in "Night and Day"	Cole Porter.

Something that's cordate is shaped like this, my love	a heart.

World Book says this country leads the world in salmon fishing, with more than 450,000 tons caught each year	the United States.

This musical instrument consists of a chanter, several drones & an air sack	a bagpipe.

In a hit song by the Monkees, "Then I saw her face, now I'm" one of these	a believer.

In 1865 NYC, already home to 800,000, finally abandoned this type of fire department	volunteer.

James Cagney in "Yankee Doodle Dandy"	George M.

Cohan.

It's the more common 4-letter name for a regular hexahedron	a cube.

The roe of the chum salmon is a popular source for the red variety of this	caviar.

Their chant in "Macbeth" begins, "Double, double, toil and trouble"	the witches.

In 1905 this former U.S.

president remarked, "Sensible and responsible women do not want to vote"	Grover Cleveland.

One of NYC's most famous seafood joints is the bar for these bivalves in Grand Central	oysters.

James Cagney in "The Seven Little Foys"	George M.

Cohan.

Dendroid means shaped like a tree; dentiform means shaped like this	a tooth.

Salmon are members of the same family as the speckled or brook variety of this fish	trout.

The Kol Nidre prayer is chanted by the cantor on the eve of this Jewish day of atonement	Yom Kippur.

A bracketed projecting beam supported on only one end, or a type of bridge	a cantilever.

Artsy types like Maya Lin & Art Spiegelman find inspiration in this area that gets its name from its northern border	SoHo (South of Houston).

Toralv Maurstad in "Song of Norway"	Edvard Grieg.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew points out a four-sided shape on the monitor.)  In geometry, I'm sure you've come across this shape: it's a plane figure with 2 parallel & 2 non-parallel sides	a trapezoid.

Weighing up to 100 pounds, this large type of salmon shares its name with a warm, dry wind	chinook.

Named for a 6th century pope, these a capella songs might have earned a Papal's Choice Award	Gregorian chants.

It's the "A" in JA, the youth organization begun in 1919 to teach young people about American business	Achievement.

In 312, emboldened by the sight of a cross in the sky, this man defeated the Emperor Maxentius & seized Rome	Constantine.

Well, goll-ly!  He left his job & home in Mayberry to join the Marine Corps	Gomer Pyle.

The Mercalli scale measures the intensity of these from I to XII	earthquakes.

Scout out the home Kit Carson shared with his lovely bride in Taos in this state	New Mexico.

"The caged bird sings / With a fearful trill / Of things unknown / But longed for still"	Maya Angelou.

A baby belch (4)	burp.

In 1955 Ngo Dinh Diem became the first president of this country that no longer exists	South Vietnam.

On "The Addams Family", he was married to Morticia	Gomez.

Geysers aren't common; major centers include Yellowstone, Iceland & this country's North Island	New Zealand.

Doris Duke never had to rough it at Rough Point, her 105-room estate in this ritzy Rhode Island town	Newport.

"Wee, sleeket, cowran, tim'rous beastie, / O, what a panic's in thy breastie!"	Rabbie Burns.

It precedes dance, laugh or flop (5)	belly.

This Apache tried to keep peace with the palefaces, but after his death, his son joined with the militant Geronimo	Cochise.

(Hi, I'm Martin Short, and) I first introduced this pointy-haired nerd on SCTV; he later had his own cartoon series, & Pat Sajak was his big hero--but don't tell Alex	Ed Grimley.

This rock can be formed by the accumulation of shells or coral, but not from citrus fruit	limestone.

People in this job never had an official home until "Number One Observatory Circle" was chosen in the '70s	the vice president.

"There was an old man with a beard, / Who said, 'It is just as I feared!'"	Edward Lear.

Bestselling book that has its own "belt" (5)	Bible.

Margaret Roper, who died in 1544, is said to have been buried with the head of this "Utopia" author, her father	Saint Thomas More.

During a dream sequence, it was revealed that this Richard Dean Anderson character had the first name Angus	MacGyver.

This 9-letter geologic science is the study of the movement & distribution of all the Earth's waters	hydrology.

Ralph Waldo Emerson owned a Concord home nicknamed this; Hawthorne rented it & wrote some "Mosses from" it	the Old Manse.

"A little learning is a dang'rous thing; / Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring"	Alexander Pope.

A throng, often "of beauties" (4)	bevy.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew stands outside the Imperial Palace in Vienna, Austria.)  Today, the Imperial Palace is home to Austria's head of state, the president; in Mozart's time, it was home to the head of state, this archduchess	Maria Theresa.

Hardcore fans of "Gilligan's Island" known that this character's real name is Roy Hinkley	the Professor.

A 6-mile-wide caldera, or volcanic crater, is a highlight of La Palma in this Spanish Island group off Africa	the Canaries.

As a bachelor in the 1970s, Prince Charles romanced Camilla at Broadlands, the home of this lord, his great-uncle	Mountbatten.

"Drink to me only with thine eyes, / And I will pledge with mine"	Ben Jonson.

Mr.

Bumble's occupation in "Oliver Twist" (6)	beadle.

Since 1960, only Massachusetts & this state have produced more than one of the 10 Democratic presidential nominees	Minnesota (Hubert Humphrey & Walter Mondale).

In May 1981 would-be assassin Mehmet Ali Agca shot this man in St.

Peter's Square	Pope John Paul II.

Kate Winslet wears a blue diamond necklace called the "Heart of the Ocean" in this 1997 film	Titanic.

The first seal designed for what is now this U.S.

state depicted icebergs, igloos & the Northern Lights	Alaska.

Since 1909 every government in Denmark's parliament has been this type that needs to strike deals	minority government (a coalition accepted).

Deadly lady seen here	a black widow.

The "4 questions" asked on this occasion include wondering why we have to eat unleavened bread	Passover.

Reginald Fitzurse was among the Knights who took Henry II's remark literally to rid him of this archbishop	Thomas  Becket.

Keanu Reeves is a supernatural detective in this 2005 flick based on the Hellblazer comic book	Constantine.

It's the calendar year depicted here in Roman numerals	2004.

In 1978 Ricardo Bordallo was Guam's head of government & this man was its head of state	Jimmy Carter.

Numerical name for the unruly group seen here during their trial in 1970	the Chicago Seven.

Malay or Sinai	peninsula.

In 1994, 31 years after the crime, Byron de la Beckwith was convicted of murdering this Civil Rights leader	Medgar Evers.

This singer starred in "Waiting to Exhale" & "The Bodyguard"	Whitney Houston.

Sleepy Bear has been this motel chain's logo since 1954	Travelodge.

This country's National People's Congress has had up to around 3,500 members	China.

Try to photograph this swift critter, and you might only get its tail, seen here	a cheetah.

Gunmen after this South American dictator in 1986 used rockets, bazookas, rifles & grenades--& missed!	Pinochet.

Yigal Amir, a student at Bar-Ilan University, is serving a life sentence for assassinating this leader in 1995	Rabin.

He played Mozart in the 1984 film "Amadeus"	Tom Hulce.

The 3 Zodiac signs with horns	Aries, Capricorn & Taurus.

Brazil has 2 federal legislative houses, the Chamber of Deputies & this	the Senate.

Viceroy of India was one of the titles of this military man	Mountbatten.

World Heritage sites in this nation include the Nasca Lines	Peru.

Ramon Mercader, who killed this man in 1940, was later awarded the Order of Lenin	Trotsky.

M.

Night Shyamalan wrote & directed this creepy Bruce Willis-Haley Joel Osment film	The Sixth Sense.

The same 2 letters in the same order make up Arkansas' postal abbreviation & the symbol of this chemical element	argon.

This country with "Republic" in its name was less republican after a 2003 coup by General Francois Bozize	the Central African Republic.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows a hefty-looking sewing kit.)  In "Moby Dick," Ahab asks Starbuck for one of these with a triangular point to pierce through materials	a sailmaker's needle.

Named for an adviser to Catherine the Great, this type of "village" looks deceptively impressive	a Potemkin village.

In 1917 the name of this castle that dates back to the 11th century was adopted by a royal house	Windsor.

The 1924 musical revue "I'll Say She Is" made these goofy brothers legitimate Broadway stars	the Marx Brothers.

In Barry Unsworth's "The Songs of the Kings", the Greek fleet bound for here is trapped by unfavorable winds	Troy.

(I'm Dr.

Thomas Starzl.)  In 1967, on a patient suffering from hepatoma, I performed the first successful human transplant of this organ	the liver.

The controversial Ahmed Chalabi	Baghdad.

A "bear"y nice Alaskan island (6)	Kodiak.

This country whose abbreviation is a conjunction joins Spain to France	Andorra.

In a 1927 title, this phrase preceded "Bonnie" (it didn't precede "Birdie" until 1960)	Bye Bye.

James Fenimore Cooper's "Mercedes of Castile" combines a love story with the voyages of this man	(Christopher) Columbus.

This organ was first successfully transplanted in 1981, as a package deal with a heart	a lung.

Mad magazine illustrator James Warhola	Pittsburgh.

Jean-Claude of the slopes (5)	Killy.

The person with this title gets to appoint people to Luxembourg's Council of State & they get to stay on for life	the Grand Duke.

The big attraction of the 1923 hit "Poppy" was this future film comic as Eustace McGargle	W.C.

Fields.

The hero of Neal Stephenson's "Quicksilver" has to settle the calculus dispute between Leibniz & him	Newton.

(Dr.

Thomas Starzl reads the clue.)  A pioneering kidney transplant of 1954 was from Ronald Herrick to Richard Herrick, this very specific type of relative	an identical twin.

Frederick the Great & Mike Nichols	Berlin.

Shy-sounding swimmers (3)	koi.

France has about 100,000 of these Defense Ministry employees who perform police functions outside the main cities	gendarmes.

The saucy 1928 musical "Paris" introduced this composer's immortal song "Let's Do It"	Cole Porter.

This antagonist of the Crusaders looks back on his life in a novel by Tariq Ali	Saladin.

He's seen here in 1967, the year of his historic operation	(Dr.

Christiaan) Barnard.

Philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau was not born in France; his birthplace was this European city	Geneva.

Its alias is turnip cabbage (8)	kohlrabi.

Until recently, Slovakia was part of Czechoslovakia & Slovenia was part of this	Yugoslavia.

As a servant in the musical "Bombo", he sang "Toot, Toot, Tootsie!" & "California, Here I Come"	Al Jolson.

It's the second name of Taras, a 16th century Cossack in a 19th century Gogol novel	Bulba.

(Dr.

Thomas Starzl reads the clue.)  In 1992 my team transplanted a liver from one of these primates into a man	a baboon.

Sidney Bechet	New Orleans.

Ceremonial chamber you'd "Hopi" into (4)	a kiva.

Sentinels at the tomb walk exactly this many steps at a time before they stop & turn	21.

Rivaner is a profitable type of this planted in Luxembourg's Moselle Valley	grape.

1999 film with the line "The answer is out there, Neo, and it's looking for you, and it will find you if you want it to"	The Matrix.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Germany.)  Haben sie Bier vom Fass?--I just asked for this form of beer	draft beer.

An astronomer may speak of a solar, lunar, equinoctial or sidereal one	a year.

This palindromic word can mean to cut short, or a short, blunt cut, with or without bangs	bob.

The Oahu tree one of these gastropods is quickly, not slowly, disappearing	a snail.

Encyclopedia Britannica says this, not French, is the lingua franca of Luxembourg	German.

The park bench Tom Hanks sat on in much of this 1994 film was in Chippewa Square in Savannah, Georgia	Forrest Gump.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Spain.)  Por favor, un plato de chorizo--a plate of this, please	sausage.

A short war between Israel & Egypt & Syria in October 1973 was named for this high holiday	Yom Kippur.

In 2004 this real estate tycoon told People magazine that his signature swept-forward style is his own handiwork	Trump.

The Hine's emerald species of this insect has a wingspan that can reach about 3.5 inches	a dragonfly.

During his years in exile, this "Les Miserables" author lived for a while in Vianden; his house there is now a museum	Victor Hugo.

The popular soundtrack of this 2000 film includes "I Am A Man Of Constant Sorrow" & "You Are My Sunshine"	O Brother, Where Art Thou?.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Venice.)  Caffe con zucchero, per favore--I take my coffee with this	sugar.

In October 2002 he made another supersonic flight, 55 years after his first	Chuck Yeager.

This rastafarian style is Whoopi Goldberg's trademark	dreadlocks.

The endangerment of the New Mexico ridge-nosed species of this snake was caused in part by collectors	a rattlesnake.

In the 1940s Luxembourg joined with these 2 countries to form a customs union	Belgium & the Netherlands.

It was the mythological container sought by Lara Croft in "Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life"	Pandora's box.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Mexico.)  Voy a comer pollo con mole--I'm having this in a classic Mexican sauce	chicken.

This Cole was a known associate of Jesse James	Younger.

This 6-letter hairstyle is "business in front, party in the back"	a mullet.

Picoides Borealis is the red-cockaded species of this bird, still on the endangered list in 2004	the woodpecker.

The Congress of Vienna in 1815 made Luxembourg a state headed by this type of ruler	a grand duke.

In this animated film, Henry J.

Waternoose says, "Kids these days.

They just don't get scared like they used to"	Monsters, Inc..

(Sarah of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from the Bronx.)  Hey, Sal, I got some hungry people out here; give me a garbage pie--I just ordered up one of these	a pizza with everything.

"Savage Sam" is a sequel to the Fred Gipson book called "Old" this	Yeller.

George Clooney popularized the close-cut style named this, like a certain leader	a Caesar (cut).

Among the colorful mammals on the endangered list are the gray & the red ones of these predators	a wolf.

Borgen's Cafe, on Main St.

in Westby, Wisconsin, feels a bit like Oslo, with menus & banter in this language	Norwegian.

This rapper won a 2000 MTV award for Best Male Video for "The Real Slim Shady"	Eminem.

A fabulist: 620-560 B.C.	Aesop.

The white petals of this flower are usually pulled to see if "she loves me" or "she loves me not"	a daisy.

A perambulator or pram to the Brits, it was invented in 1733 by William Kent for the Duke of Devonshire's kids	a baby carriage.

1980 scarefest in which mom & daughter switch bodies one day & are stalked by Jason at Camp Crystal Lake	Freaky Friday the 13th.

In Salt Lake City take Main Street to this square to find the Mormon Tabernacle	Temple Square.

'60s Dylan classic that begins, "Once upon a time you dressed so fine"	"Like A Rolling Stone".

A philosopher & student of Plato: 384-322 B.C.	Aristotle.

This flower seen here is often spotted on a man's lapel	a carnation.

In 1676 Robert Hooke came up with a universal one of these to manipulate the mirrors of his helioscope	a universal joint.

Leif Ericson's dad who was a huge star with low surface temperature	Erik the Red Giant.

There's a house dating from 1648 on Main St.

in this "directional" resort village in New York's Hamptons	Southampton.

In the summer of 2002 this country star hit the Hot 100 chart with "Courtesy Of The Red, White and Blue"	Toby Keith.

A comedic dramatist: 445-385 B.C.	Aristophanes.

These flowers blooming in a Flanders cemetery during WWI inspired a famous poem by Major John McCrae	poppies.

The name of this Scot who invented the steam hammer sounds just like the American who invented basketball	(James) Nasmyth.

Fictional girl sleuth who's the granddaughter of "The Great Profile"	Nancy Drew Barrymore.

Bob Seger was "down on Main Street" in this city, home to a university	Ann Arbor.

Alicia Keys received 5 Grammys for 2001, including best new artist & song of the year for this hit	"Fallin'".

A mathematician: 287-212 B.C.	Archimedes.

Grown from bulbs, they're the cheerful spring flowers seen here	daffodils.

For the military, zoologist John Kerr developed the "dazzle paint" type of this, something animals also use	camouflage.

Projection at the southern tip of South America also called a cornucopia	Cape Horn o' Plenty.

Your feelings may run deep on historic Main Street in this city, home of Oklahoma State University	Stillwater.

"Come Back Home" is the first single from his 2003 album "Day I Forgot"	Pete Yorn.

The "Oresteia" tragedian: 525-456 B.C.	Aeschylus.

In song, Colorado is where these bluish & white state flowers grow	the Rocky Mountain columbines.

The miner's safety lamp was also called by the name of this British chemist who invented it in 1815	Sir Humphry Davy.

"Lethal Weapon" director whose group was caught in a Sierra Nevada pass in the winter of 1846-47	the Richard Donner Party.

"I am the rose of Sharon" & "When you know your name, you should hang on to it" are from 2 different books titled this	Song of Solomon.

"The Surveyor President"	George Washington.

In 2004 he published "My Prison Without Bars"	Pete Rose.

It's the job of the lad seen here	ringbearer.

(1937) "'It's me, Bilbo Baggins, companion of Thorin!'"	The Hobbit.

It's the breakfast cereal pitched by the animated elves Snap, Crackle & Pop	Rice Krispies.

Wow!  In 2002 a "supercolony" of billions of these was discovered stretching across several countries in Europe	ants.

"The Illinois Baboon" & "The Martyr President"	Abraham Lincoln.

With the Yankees from 1923 to 1939, his No.

4 was the first number retired in either league	Lou Gehrig.

In 2002 a hot pink frock worn by Robin Durr won the DeKuyper Contest for the worst of these	a bridesmaid's dress.

(1719) "I made him know his name should be Friday, which was the day I saved his life"	Robinson Crusoe.

The 3 U.K.

countries that make up the island of Great Britain	England, Scotland & Wales.

Robert Frost wondered "How many" of these "fell on Newton's head before he took the hint!"	apples.

"Red Fox" & "The Scribe of the Revolution"	Thomas Jefferson.

Baseball's "Mr.

October", he generated headlines for his cantankerous personality & his athletic prowess	Reggie Jackson.

The traditional conclusion of the pre-vow line "If anyone can show just cause why they may not be joined together..."	"let him speak now or forever hold his peace".

(1945) "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others"	Animal Farm.

The 4-legged Omaha made the record books in 1935 with this 3-feat	racing's Triple Crown.

In 2004 an Arctic Beauty wild hair contest became part of the famous Fur Rendezvous in this U.S.

city	Anchorage.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew stands next to a bust of President Hoover at the Hoover Dam Visitor Center.)  Herbert Hoover, for whom the dam is named, was known as "The Great" this, his prepolitics profession	Engineer.

Famous nickname of Leon Goslin, who played in all 19 World Series games with the Washington Senators	"Goose".

A Navy wedding features an arch of swords; an Army wedding, an arch of these heavy cavalry swords	sabres.

(1932) "Over the main entrance the words, Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre"	Brave New World.

Since the 1979 incident at this location, no new nuclear reactors have been ordered in the U.S.	Three-Mile Island.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from Cape Cod, MA.) In 1986, this vessel, named either for a chipmunk or Woods Hole scientist Alan Vine, reached the Titanic	the Alvin.

"The Schoolmaster in Politics"	Woodrow Wilson.

Sadly, this lefty pitcher who coined the Mets' battle cry "You gotta believe" died in 2004	Tug McGraw.

It's the festive-sounding name for one who officiates at a wedding	the celebrant.

(1972) "Rabbits need dignity and above all the will to accept their fate"	Watership Down.

Mythical monstrosity manifested here	Cerberus.

The name Zog is not as much in vogue as it once was, when King Zog I ruled this European country	Albania.

In newspapers, Jack Ruby was invariably described as an "operator" of these joints	strip joints (or nightclubs).

It's the only Irish city with a population above 500,000	Dublin.

An artist: "In the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes"	Andy Warhol.

Just off Australia, it's the largest chain of coral reefs in the world	the Great Barrier Reef.

Dangerous American pit viper	the diamondback.

The largest deposits of this fossil tree resin are found in the sands along the shores of the Baltic Sea	amber.

On Feb.

29, 2004 she won an Oscar for playing a woman named Ruby	Rene Zellweger.

It's the one-word term for the traditional 6 counties known as Northern Ireland	Ulster.

A Founding Father: "There never was a good war or a bad peace"	Benjamin Franklin.

John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park, the USA's first underwater park, is just off the coast of this Florida key	Key Largo.

Honolulu high spot	Diamond Head.

This December birthstone is the state gem of Arizona & New Mexico	turquoise.

She was married to Al Jolson when she starred in those classic 1930s Busby Berkeley musicals	Ruby Keeler.

This U.S.

president visited his family's ancestral village of Ballyporeen in 1984	Reagan.

A 17th century writer: "Angling can be said to be so like the mathematics, that it can never be fully learnt"	Izaak Walton.

A species of these well-armed creatures known as the crown-of-thorns feasts on coral reefs	starfish.

Carol Channing's Broadway ballad from "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"	"Diamonds Are A Girl's Best Friend".

Cornflower blue is the most prized color of this gem	a sapphire.

Harry Ruby & Bert Kalmar wrote this classic song about "eight little letters which simply mean I love you"	"Three Little Words".

This Irish port city on the River Suir is world famous for its crystal	Waterford.

A playwright: "We are all born mad.

Some remain so."	Samuel Beckett.

This coral reef dweller seen here can be vicious & has been known to attack underwater divers	a moray eel.

Arkansassy state park near Murfreesboro	Crater of Diamonds State Park.

Mexico is known for its water & fire varieties of this gem	opal.

In a 1999 TV movie, she played Bessie, of the centenarian Delany sisters	Ruby Dee.

At about 230 miles, it's not only the longest river in Ireland, it's the longest in the British Isles	the River Shannon.

A philosopher: "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it"	George Santayana.

It's a ring-shaped coral island surrounding a lagoon, like Bikini or Eniwetok	an atoll.

This lavish-living turn-of-the-century financier rose from a job as a bellhop	Diamond Jim Brady.

In 1750 a Parisian jeweler found that heat turns this sherry-colored Brazilian gem pink	topaz.

Ironically, he might have saved himself from death in 1779 if he had known how to swim	Captain Cook.

During WWII this "Gone with the Wind" author was an American Red Cross volunteer & sold war bonds	(Margaret) Mitchell.

This British prime minister won a rare third term in June	Margaret Thatcher.

I'll sip a Berries & Kreme Chiller with my hot Original Glazed doughnut from this chain	Krispy Kreme.

It's the type of swan heard here	a trumpeter swan.

This oil cartel controls 40% of world production	OPEC.

Mrs.

Reagan's whims	Nancy's fancies.

In 1842 he lived with cannibals in the Taipi Valley in the Marquesas; his novel "Typee" was based on the experience	Herman Melville.

Pat Cash beat this Czech-born tennis great to win the Wimbledon singles title	(Ivan) Lendl.

I've got a big appetite, so give me the Big Cup version of this Reese's treat	a peanut butter cup.

Listen, you white-bellied bustard, I know where you live-- this continent's savanna	Africa.

The USA's highest occupied office space is the 98th floor of this Chicago structure	the Sears Tower.

Mrs.

Nixon's floor pads for gymnastics	Pat's mats.

He wrote his last short story, "The Betrothed", shortly before his play "The Cherry Orchard"	Chekhov.

A judge said no custody of "Baby M" for this type of mother who'd agreed to bear her for $10,000	a surrogate.

I'd love some Honey Apple Raisin Chocolate Cookie ice cream, but this duo purposely misplaced the recipe	Ben & Jerry.

This bird shown in an illustration is distinguished from the heron by the bustle of feathers over its rump	crane.

On April 9, 1963 this Brit was made the first honorary U.S.

citizen	Winston Churchill.

Mrs.

Truman's frocks	Bess's dresses.

After years of writing science fiction, he found his niche with historical novels such as "North and South"	(John) Jakes.

2 Russians made an impromptu spacewalk outside this space station & found a bag of trash that hindered docking	Mir.

Wow! The Chocolate Delight snack bar named for this "Miami" diet has just 100 calories! I'll have 6 of them	the South Beach diet.

Perhaps this "thrush", a type of babbler, hangs out at comedy clubs with the same-named hyena	laughing thrush.

This French tennis star of the 1920s who went on to start a clothing line was known as "the Crocodile"	(Rene) Lacoste.

Mrs.

Ford's landing wharfs	Betty's jetties.

She first wrote "Ethan Frome" in French, then later translated it into English	Edith Wharton.

In October the Senate rejected this former Watergate figure's nomination to the Supreme Court	Robert Bork.

I could eat a whole bag of this type of snack invented in Saratoga Springs in 1853	potato chips.

The long legs of the bird seen here give it this name, from a prop used by circus performers	a stilt.

Using beeswax, olive oil, rose petals & water, Galen invented this skin cleanser with a "frigid" name c.

200 A.D.	cold cream.

Mrs.

Bush's luminous radiations	Laura's auras.

In 1634 & 1635 an outbreak of this deadly contagion devastated Munich, killing more than one third of its residents	bubonic plague.

China or other ceramic objects can also be called this, after the material they're made of	porcelain.

Established by George Washington in 1782, it can also be given to P.O.W.s who've been mistreated	Purple Heart.

A 1936 dissent by Justice Stone accused 6 other justices of a "tortured construction" of this document	the Constitution.

When the earth is at perihelion, it is having its closest encounter with this	the sun.

Spielberg directed segment 2 of this 1983 movie based on a creepy anthology series	Twilight Zone.

Munich's motto used to be "die weltstadt mit herz", the world city with one of these	heart.

This dictionary term meaning "old" is applied to words like "wast"	archaic.

Day of the week in February 2006 when the top of the Empire State Building was lit purple, green & gold	Tuesday.

In his first major case as Chief Justice, he found himself in the minority in 2006 as Oregon assisted suicide was okayed	John Roberts.

In a Wilde tale, an American family in the mansion Canterville Chase encounters this trying to scare them	a ghost.

This 1968 short film with a "strollin" title lent its name to Spielberg's production company	Amblin.

The Summer Olympics in Munich in this year were sadly marred by terrorism & tragedy	1972.

This often blended rum & juice cocktail is named for a Cuban  town	daiquiri.

Defensive tackle Alan Page was part of the "purple people eaters" of this NFL team	the Minnesota Vikings.

Justice Brennan, dissenting in Paris Adult Theater v.

Slaton, said this quality is too vaguely defined to regulate	obscenity.

He's now a correspondant emeritus for "60 Minutes"; his memoir "Close Encounters" came out in 1984	Mike Wallace.

Spielberg wasn't paid for directing this film; he said it would be "blood money"	Schindler's List.

On Munich's coat of arms you'll find one of these religious figures who originally settled the city and gave it its name	monk.

This 2-word term for a nanny is French for "equal"	an au pair.

2 centuries late, this unstable British king was diagnosed with an excess of purple pigments in the blood	King George III.

Justice Holmes dissented when seditionist Jacob Abrams' conviction was upheld,  saying he didn't pose this type of "danger"	clear and present.

On May 13, 1981 he had a close encounter with Mehmet Ali Agca in Rome; he would later visit Agca in prison	Pope John Paul II.

13-year-old Christian Bale starred in this J.G.

Ballard tale about a young prisoner in WWII China	Empire of the Sun.

In the 16th century, Munich was a center of the German phase of this movement against Protestantism	the Counter-Reformation.

Broad-snouted and smooth-fronted are 2 types of this South American reptile	caiman.

This purple flower is the state flower of Colorado	the columbine.

Justice Harlan was an honorable one-man minority in this 1896 decision that enshrined the "separate but equal" doctrine	Plessy v.

Ferguson.

In meteorology, when a cold one has a close encounter with a warm one & takes it over, it's called an occluded one	a front.

Before "The Blues Brothers", Dan Aykroyd & John Belushi starred in this WWII farce	1941.

To the consternation of the title character, we learn that this character was born by C-section	Macduff.

Stationed in Seville, Don Jose is bewitched by a gypsy girl in this Bizet opera	Carmen.

"I lost the Number 1 draft pick the night before the draft!"	Jerry Maguire.

In 1975 the United Kingdom began piping oil from this sea to its shores	the North Sea.

Chafing from chaps, rope burns from lassos & that saddle horn -- watch where you sit if you're one of these	cowboy.

Named for the Virgin Mary, these carnivorous little red beetles can help rid your garden of aphids & other insects	ladybugs.

Ulysses' trousers	Grant's pants.

Like many of his works, this composer's "Tannhauser" is based on Germanic legends	(Richard) Wagner.

"What I wouldn't give for a drop of good old-fashioned Creole blood"	Interview with the Vampire.

The St.

Mary's River connects Lake Superior to this second-largest Great Lake	Lake Huron.

If this is you're job you'd be fired if this clue go t by you uncorected	proofreader.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew in the laboratory)  Any glass or plastic container can be used to build one of these self-contained indoor gardens	terrariums.

Arthur's school terms	Chester's semesters.

Mozart opera in which the count tries to thwart & postpone his valet's wedding	The Marriage of Figaro.

"I am a Vietnam veteran!  I fought for my country!"	Born on the Fourth of July.

12,500' above sea level, this South American lake bordering Bolivia & Peru is the world's most navigable lake	Lake Titicaca.

In this job aiding a medical professional, Angie might get a finger nipped by little Billy while X-raying his molar	dental hygienist.

Juniper & maple are good trees to use in this cultivating art whose name means "plant in a tray" in Japanese	bonsai.

Zachary's wardens	Taylor's jailers.

Musetta has her very own waltz in Act II of this Puccini opera	La boheme.

"I'm gonna let ya in on a little secret, Ray.

K-Mart sucks"	Rain Man.

At Khartoum, Sudan these colorful branches meet to form the Nile River	the Blue Nile & the White Nile.

He has to listen to his wheels going round, round, round all day & may get a paper cut from a transfer	bus driver.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew in the laboratory)  A must for any gardener, a soil testing kit is used to take a reading of this level, a measure of acidity	pH level.

James' egg parts	Polk's yolks.

At 35 he decided for the first time to sit right down & write himself an opera; he produced "Fidelio"	(Ludwig van) Beethoven.

"They're dead...my team is dead...they knew we were coming"	Mission: Impossible.

After a 1,750-mile trip from Germany, this river breaks into 3 branches in Romania before emptying into the Black Sea	the Danube.

If this is your job you might get brine in your eye after dropping the cucumber in the barrel	pickler.

The 3 elements most commonly found in garden fertilizers are phosphorus, potassium & this element	nitrogen.

Tyler's conducting sticks	John's batons.

She was the Virgin Queen or Good Queen Bess	Elizabeth I.

Founded by Claire Chennault, these aviators shot down hundreds of Japanese planes during World War II	the Flying Tigers.

1 Samuel 17 informs us that the Philistine city of Gath was the home of this giant	Goliath.

This man's most avid supporters during the Cultural Revolution were students mobilized as "Red Guards"	Mao Tse-tung.

Winston Churchill said that this weapon "brought peace, but man alone can keep that peace"	the atomic bomb.

In a June 19, 1846 game, J.W.

Davis of the N.Y.

Nine was fined 6 cents for swearing at this person	the umpire.

Louis VI of France was known as this; as a child he must have shopped in le husky department	Louis the Fat.

Now endangered, this largest variety of tiger bears the name of a large Russian region	the Siberian tiger.

In Lilliput he's a giant	Gulliver.

In the Catholic Church, they wear red hats	cardinals.

Some scientists believe the dinosaurs died out when one of these interstellar objects struck the Earth	an asteroid.

To injure opposing players, Ty Cobb was said to sharpen these	his spikes.

Russia's first ruler with this name was called Kalita, meaning "moneybags"; not so terrible	Ivan.

Genus sphyraena, this long, thin predatory fish with protruding jaws & teeth is known as the "tiger of the sea"	barracuda.

Jett Rink, a poor ranch hand, becomes an oil millionaire in her novel "Giant"	Edna Ferber.

It's the world-famous "colorful" area seen here in the 1950s	Red Square.

Whether for a sorcerer or a craft guild, one serves time as one of these before becoming a journeyman	apprentice.

Topps' 1952 series No.

311 was this player's first card & is a holy grail among collectors	Mickey Mantle.

Charles Edward Stuart could have worn a T.Y.P.

necklace for "The Young Pretender" or a B.P.C.

one for this nickname	Bonnie Prince Charlie.

One of this man's most famous poems begins, "Tyger! Tyger! burning bright, in the forests of the night"	William Blake.

"Giants in the Earth" is Ole Rolvaag's novel about immigrants from this country adjusting to life on the prairie	Norway.

About 1,200 miles long, it has a maximum depth of almost 10,000 feet	the Red Sea.

This "Khan" is the spiritual leader of the Ismaili sect of Muslims	the Aga Khan.

2 of the 5 cities that had both National League & American League teams in 1903	(2 of 5) Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, St.

Louis.

This first king of Poland was alliteratively nicknamed "the Brave"	Boleslaw.

The autobiography written by this famous Nepalese was titled "Tiger of the Snows"	Tenzing Norgay.

Odysseus incurs the wrath of Poseidon by blinding this giant Cyclops	Polyphemus.

The flag of this U.K.

division features an impressive red dragon with a forked tongue & tail	Wales.

In 1841 ex-president John Quincy Adams represented the mutineers of this ship before the Supreme Court	the Amistad.

During his 22-year career he walked a then-record 2,056 times	Babe Ruth.

Einstein said of him, "Generations to come will scarcely believe" one such as he "walked the Earth in flesh & blood"	Mohandas Gandhi.

This co-author of "Manifest Der Kommunisttischen Partei" was born May 5, 1818	(Karl) Marx.

You're nuts if you don't know this title of hits by Seal, Icehouse & Patsy Cline	"Crazy".

A tactical formation in the form of a V, or an "issue" dividing an otherwise unified group	a wedge.

"For" Michigan Republican congressman Hoekstra's "sake!"	Pete's.

This state's largest county, San Bernardino, was divided in 1893 to form Riverside county	California.

Their publications include "First Aid Fast" & a "Babysitter's Handbook"	the American Red Cross.

Philosopher Soren Kierkegaard was born May 5, 1813 in this capital	Copenhagen.

The Eagles in 1975 & The Emotions in 1977 both hit No.

1 singing about "The Best Of" this	"My Love".

Ticonderoga is no.

1 in making no.

2 these, introduced in 1913	pencils.

"For the love of" Wyoming senator Enzi!	Mike.

Leadville in the Rockies in this state is the USA's highest incorporated city	Colorado.

A gorilla named Koko learned to communicate using gestures from this	American Sign Language.

Born May 5, 1919, Giorgios Papadopoulos became dictator of this country in 1967	Greece.

Robbie Nevil & B*witched had tunes called this French phrase meaning "that's life"	"C'est La Vie".

16 tablespoons equals one of these	a cup.

"Heavens to" ex-New York lieutenant governor McCaughey!	Betsy.

At about 1,700 square miles, this saline lake is one of the largest lakes in the world with no outlet	the Salt Lake.

In 2009 this organization that maintains the largest registry for purebred dogs celebrated its 125th anniversary	the American Kennel Club.

This May-5 born Monty Python member & BBC travel filmmaker is a commando of the Order of the British Empire	(Michael) Palin.

Sammy Davis Jr.

in 1972 & Christina Aguilera in 2007 sang about this sweet guy	"Candyman".

This brand says its "magic" tape is "the original matte-finish, invisible tape"	Scotch.

"Geez" House Rules Committee ranking Democrat Slaughter	Louise.

Nome, Alaska lies on this peninsula named for a 19th century Secretary of State	the Seward peninsula.

When Iowa farmers & their wives first saw this 1930 painting of a farm couple, many of them were downright angry	American Gothic.

A culinary foundation is named for this dean of American cookery who was born in Portland May 5, 1903	James Beard.

Sticky-sweet title of no.

1s for Bobby Goldsboro in 1968 & Mariah Carey in 1997	"Honey".

11-letter word for embroidery on canvas, with uniform spacing of stitches in a pattern	needlepoint.

South Carolina legislator John "O'Goshen!"	land.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  The northwest angle belongs to the U.S., although it doesn't look that way; it's the only part of the lower 48 that extends miles north of this parallel of latitude	the 49th parallel.

In 2009 the U.S.

Mint issued a quarter for this territory featuring an ava bowl, a whisk & a coconut tree	American Samoa.

This man's injected dead virus vaccine inspired Albert Sabin's live-virus oral vaccine for polio	(Jonas) Salk.

This 1963 epic included 79 sets & 26,000 costumes	Cleopatra.

Utah's state tree is the blue type of this evergreen	the spruce.

A deadlocked jury is this 4-letter word	hung.

The U.S.

Fifth Army comes to town: June 4 of this year	1944.

This 2-word term for a skeptic refers to one of Jesus' apostles	a doubting Thomas.

This naturalist wrote, "for my own part I would as soon be descended from that heroic little monkey"	(Charles) Darwin.

Variety called it "a horse picture" with "a new dramatic find-- moppet Elizabeth Taylor"	National Velvet.

Seen here, a Navajo bracelet features this mineral	turquoise.

This type of jury charged with deciding whether there's enough evidence to try a person may have up to 23 members	a grand jury.

Michaelangelo paints the Sistine Chapel: this century	the 16th.

This big hair style is derived from the title of a mistress of Louis XV	a madame pompadour.

Despite his advocacy of megadoses of vitamin c, he & his wife Ava got cancer	Linus Pauling.

Mike Todd was killed in a plane crash while Liz was making this film in which she played Maggie Pollitt	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.

This jeweler's blue box is a registered trademark	Tiffany.

The general type of this military tribunal must have at least 5 members & the defense attorney may be military or civilian	court martial.

Mussolini becomes prime minister: this decade	the 1920s.

To abstain from buying or doing trade with, in honor of an Irish landlord against whom such tactics were used	to boycott.

This Russian's work on gastrointestinal secretions in animals earned him a Nobel prize	Pavlov.

Liz won an Oscar for her role as a battlesome wife in this adaptation of an Albee play	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?.

The vase seen here is made from this semiprecious stone	lapis lazuli.

In the Manson trial this isolation of a jury to protect it from outside influences lasted 8 1/2 months	sequestering.

Rome burns while an emperor relaxes in his villa at Antium: this century	1st (A.D.).

This ancient king of Lydia, thought the wealthiest man on earth, had the Midas touch, hence the phrase "as rich as" him	Croesus.

He discovered that the observed frequency of light waves is affected by the relative motion of the source & detector	Doppler.

James Dean, Rock Hudson & Liz formed a love triangle in this Texas-set film	Giant.

The blue type of this game fish, M.

Nigricans, has a long pointed bill	a marlin.

In selecting jurors, an attorney may reject some for no stated reason-- this type of challenge	a peremptory challenge.

Charlemagne is crowned emperor by Pope Leo III: this day, 800 A.D.	Christmas.

This flower seen here is named for a German botanist	a zinnia.

Shortly after he received the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize, his country ceased to exist	Mikhail Gorbachev.

This word meaning "for each" precedes annum or diem	per.

In "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" the name of the fictional drug ALZ112 indicates it's a possible treatment for this	Alzheimer's.

This type of "piece" sounds like a smoking pipe, but it's an article written to flatter or glorify the subject	a puff piece.

In this sporting quintet, the center is considered No.

5 when diagramming plays	a basketball team.

The Siege of Yorktown	the American Revolution.

In his acceptance speech, Pres.

Obama quoted this 1964 American recipient saying, "violence never brings permanent peace"	(Martin Luther) King (Jr.).

5-letter word meaning less by the subtraction of; don't overthink it	minus.

Emma Stone starred as aspiring writer Skeeter Phelan in this '60s-set drama based on a novel	The Help.

Every Christmas, the Indiana post office in the town named for him postmarks a half a million pieces of mail	Santa Claus.

A foursome is required to play this game where you try to win the rubber	bridge.

The Battle of New Orleans	the War of 1812.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents from the Nobel Peace Prize Center in Oslo, Norway.) Henry Dunant, who founded this international organization that works to relieve suffering, won a share of the first Peace Prize in 1901; since then, the organization itself has won an unprecedented three prizes	the Red Cross.

It's the "A" in the advocacy group known as MADD	Against.

He was busy in 2011, with parts in "Paul", "Horrible Bosses" & "The Change-Up"	(Jason) Bateman.

The U.S.

hasn't minted these, between a penny & a nickel, since 1872	a two-cent coin.

If Andy yearns for Brenda & Brenda cares about Charlene who pines for Andy, the 3 of them form one of these	a love triangle.

The Battle of the Meuse-Argonne	World War I.

1997's prize went in part to an international group trying to clear these from the world	land mines.

Neil Gaiman wrote, "Now slip, now slide, now move unseen, above, beneath, betwixt," this	between.

Known for his work as a Shakespearean actor, he directed "Thor"	(Kenneth) Branagh.

5-letter archaeological term for a broken scrap of earthenware	a shard.

In interrogation, one officer who acts threatening & another who comes on nicer to win the suspect's trust	good cop, bad cop.

The Battle of Chapultepec	the Mexican-American War.

This U.N.

agency, created in 1946 to aid children in Europe, won the 1965 Peace Prize	UNICEF.

It means against, & is also a prefix found before -diction	contra.

Kate Bosworth & James Marsden star in the 2011 remake of this Sam Peckinpah film	Straw Dogs.

From the Latin for "of the night", these pensive musical pieces were popularized by Chopin & Bartok	nocturnes.

It can mean "one" or a military entity like the army's Third Armored Division	unit.

The Battle of Bosworth	the Wars of the Roses.

This 1990 winner said it was "a recognition of what we call perestroika and innovative political thinking"	Gorbachev.

In an essay Woolf wrote, "A woman must have money and a" this "of her own...

to write fiction"	a room of one's own.

This gas, CO, prevents hemoglobin from supplying oxygen to the body	carbon monoxide.

1964:  "Please Please Me"	The Beatles.

James K.

Polk is the only president to have previously held this position in the House of Representatives	Speaker.

In 1604 King James I called this plant a "perpetual stinking torment" & "dangerous to the lungs"; he was right	tobacco.

Yiddish to French: The polite "a sheynem dank"	merci beaucoup.

Virginia's father Sir Leslie Stephen was earlier married to a daughter of this "Vanity Fair" author	Thackeray.

This 2-word study of living things is primarily devoted to carbon compounds	organic chemistry.

1965:  "My Girl"	The Temptations.

This U.S.

president was named for his great-grandfather, a signer of the Declaration of Independence	Benjamin Harrison.

Christopher Columbus sampled this grain in Cuba, declaring it "most tasty boiled, roasted or ground into flour"	corn (or maize).

Turkish to Spanish: Relatively speaking, "anne" & "baba"	madre y padre.

This 1928 title character begins as a man & ends, almost 400 years later, as a young woman (but not in Florida)	Orlando.

AKA black lead, this form of carbon has a greasy feel & is used in making lubricants	graphite.

1963:  "Walk Like A Man"	Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons.

The time of his administration was known as "the Era of Good Feelings"	Monroe.

This fruit from the family Bromeliaceae is native to Brazil & Paraguay; it didn't reach Hawaii until the early 1500s	the pineapple.

Portuguese to Russian: The positive "sim"	da.

In 1904 Virginia & her siblings moved to this London district, where they would host "group" gatherings	Bloomsbury.

This carbon isotope, 2 down from radiocarbon, is the standard for the relative atomic mass of other elements	C-12 (or carbon-12).

1967:  "Girl, You'll Be A Woman Soon"	Neil Diamond.

Pre-Civil War president considered by some to have been the handsomest	(Franklin) Pierce.

When this member of the nightshade family reached Italy, it was known as pomi d'oro, or gold apple	a tomato.

Polish to Latin: "Bog", a divine word	deus.

Michael Cunningham's "The Hours" was inspired by this novel that Woolf originally called "The Hours"	Mrs.

Dalloway.

The atoms in a diamond are arranged in this "4-faced" pyramid-shaped pattern, giving it a rigid structure	tetrahedral.

1963:  "You've Really Got A Hold On Me"	Smokey Robinson and the Miracles.

On Nov.

2, 1880 he was a member of the House of Representatives from Ohio, a senator-elect & president-elect	Garfield.

Also known as butter beans, they were, prior to being exported to Europe, a diet staple of the Inca	lima beans.

Swahili to German: The magic word "tafadhali"	bitte.

These 2 nations, one an island, have highest peaks with the same name; they also share a common European culture	Greece & Cyprus.

As he did in "Anchorman", Will Ferrell sports this facial feature in the "SNL" "Jeopardy!" skits	a mustache.

The Franklin Pierce Law Center & Christa McAuliffe Planetarium can be found in this capital of New Hampshire	Concord.

God did make these, & some of them are Granny Smiths	(little green) apples.

Africa's oldest democracy, this nation headed by Pres.

Ian Khama is mainly made up of the Tswana people	Botswana.

This sound made by lions can carry 5 miles	a roar.

Proverbial food storage container where your "hand is caught" when busted for taking a bribe	the cookie jar.

Darrell Hammond played this Scottish actor who...

Nope, I can't say anything else; just name him	Sean Connery.

New Hampshire is bounded to the north by this Canadian province, the country's largest in area	Quebec.

Lincoln Green is also called this green, where you might see it were it not for the trees	a forest.

Taking over from his assassinated father in 2001, Joseph Kabila is the president of this country abbreviated D.R.C.	the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

This sound of aggression from a domestic cat is also produced by vipers	a hiss.

A 1-pound tin of premium sevruga this can go for more than $2,000	caviar.

Norm MacDonald played this "Smokey and the Bandit" star who had a slight problem IDing Pat Morita's ancestry	Burt Reynolds.

Chartered in 1769, this Ivy League school is N.H.'s oldest & ranks among the 10 oldest U.S.

colleges	Dartmouth.

This old song says, "Alas, my love, you do me wrong, to cast me off discourteously"	"Greensleeves".

Troubles with neighboring Somalia & Eritrea surely occupy President Girma Woldegiorgis of this country	Ethiopia.

In "The Maltese Falcon", Dashiell Hammett wrote, "'That will be excellent,' Gutman" did this	purred.

Django Reinhardt was a master of this instrument	the guitar.

Ben Stiller played this star of "The Firm" on a show where one category was "FOODS THAT END IN 'AMBURGER'"	Tom Cruise.

New Hampshire's Squam Lakes provided the title location for this 1981 Fonda & Hepburn film	On Golden Pond.

This American political party that formed in 1874 favored an increase in paper currency	the Greenback Party.

President Laurent Gbagbo heads this country that goes by its French name most of the time	Cte d'Ivoire (the Ivory Coast).

This threatening sound can also mean "to become tangled"	snarled.

The incarnation of a god in Hindu myth, or an Internet graphical image representing a person	an avatar.

Kristen Wiig played this "Today" co-host, who, like so many of our players, brought Chardonnay on stage	Kathie Lee Gifford.

Also the name of a "United" city in England, this city lies along the banks of the Merrimack River	Manchester.

This play says, "Beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-eyed monster"	Othello.

President Amadou Toure has led this Saharan nation with a 4-letter name since 2002	Mali.

Starting around 1922, this phrase meant something excellent or desirable	the cat's meow.

This animal's scientific name is Panthera onca	jaguar.

He concludes "The Divine Comedy" with "The love that moves the sun and the other stars"	Dante.

1964: "I Want To Hold Your Hand"	The Beatles.

The name of this fruit, genus Prunus, can precede picker, pie & Coke	cherry.

Hawaiian feast	a luau.

This drug marketed as Advil & Nuprin reduces pain by inhibiting chemicals that cause inflammation	ibuprofen.

(Alex reports from the Western Wall in Jerusalem.)  In Jewish circles, the Wailing Wall became known as the Western Wall after this 1967 war & the reunification of Jerusalem	the Six-Day War.

Marlowe rhymed, "Where both deliberate, the love is slight; who ever loved, that loved not at" this?	first sight.

1987: "I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves Me)"	(Whitney) Houston.

More than 50 medications are affected by the juice of this citrus fruit; its enzymes break down the meds	grapefruit.

Pierre's "farewell"	adieu.

To control pain, some patients try this technique in which they monitor their body functions & try to alter them	biofeedback.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew is in a boat.)  You can ride in a boat reminiscent of Jesus' time on this sea, beside which he preached and performed miracles like the one of the loaves & fishes	the Sea of Galilee.

In "Prometheus Unbound", he wrote, "All love is sweet, given or returned.

Common as light is love"	Percy Bysshe Shelley.

1956: "I Want You, I Need You, I Love You"	Elvis.

This fuzzy fruit is also a slang term meaning inform against or betray	peach.

Dresser	a bureau.

Trigger point injections are used to treat this muscle contraction, from the Latin for "convulsion"	a spasm.

(Alex places a stone on a grave at Mount Zion Cemetery in Jerusalem.)  Here in the Mount Zion Cemetery, one of the prominent graves is that of this man, a Krakow factory owner, who, in World War II, saved the lives of over 1,000 Jews	(Oskar) Schindler.

Virgil's "omnia vincit amor" is translated as this	love conquers all.

1984: "I Want To Know What Love Is"	Foreigner.

The liqueur creme de cassis is made with the black type of this fruit	currant.

Emmy-winning actor Bridges	Beau.

Pain registers in one area of the outer portion of the cerebrum called the cerebral this	cortex.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Isreal.)  This ruined fortress atop a mesa is where thousands of Israeli soldiers have taken an oath swearing that it shall not fall again	Masada.

"In her first passion woman loves her lover, in all the others all she loves is love", he wrote in "Don Juan"	Byron.

1970: "I Want You Back"	The Jackson 5.

Fraise is French for this fruit	strawberry.

Environment or setting	milieu.

There are several types of these nerve cells: some respond to temperature, some to pressure & some to pain	sensory receptors.

(Alex floats in the Dead Sea.)  Floating in the Dead Sea is easy; now what keeps me buoyant?  The water is nine times saltier than seawater, & it has a very high this, which is mass per unit of volume	density.

Gilbert & Sullivan's "Mikado", not Milne, gave us this hyphenated title for a pompous functionary	grand poo-bah.

New Haven	Connecticut.

He won an NBA title ring in 1973 as a reserve forward with the Knicks & coached the Bulls to 6 titles in the '90s	Phil Jackson.

A move to healthy eating got the Pizza Sub nixed from this chain, but we hear if you ask nicely some stores will make it	Subway.

C.S.

Lewis & Aldous Huxley's deaths on Nov.

22, 1963 were overshadowed by this man's death in Dallas	John Kennedy.

From the Italian for "bad air", this disease kills more than one million people each year	malaria.

String puppets are often called these, affer a certain virgin	marionettes.

Knoxville	Tennessee.

In 2000 this former Celtics player coached the Indiana Pacers to the NBA finals	Larry Bird.

Wendy's will make you a grand slam burger with this many patties, but don't tell everyone	four.

Just hours before Michael Jackson's death, Hollywood lost this TV "Angel"	Farrah Fawcett.

In 1775 this island in San Francisco Bay was called "Island of the Pelicans"	Alcatraz.

If you're emotionally dependent on mom, you're "tied to" these "strings"	apron strings.

Wheeling	West Virginia.

Abe Saperstein is in the Hall of Fame, as is this team he promoted & coached for decades	The Harlem Globetrotters.

Have it your way at this chain & order a Mustard Whopper, which substitutes the yellow stuff for mayo	Burger King.

On April 25,1995 first "Jeopardy!" host Art Fleming passed away & the dance was over for this partner of Fred	Ginger Rogers.

God requires adult Muslims to fast during this month so they may cultivate piety	Ramadan.

A 1942 big band hit was entitled "String Of" these	"String Of Pearls".

Huntsville	Alabama.

As a rookie in the 1980 NBA finals, this Michigan State alum played all 5 positions & scored 42 points in the final game	Magic Johnson.

Fatburger offers a "Hypocrite Burger" featuring this type of patty with slabs of bacon	veggie patty.

This famed aviator outlived his brother by 35 years, passing away in 1948 on the same day Gandhi was assassinated	Orville Wright.

The university environment	academia.

In the U.S.

string cheese is usually a type of this cheese	mozzarella.

Guthrie	Oklahoma.

This Nigeria-born Rockets player holds the NBA record for career blocked shots with 3,830	Hakeem Olajuwon.

Ask this chain that's inspired by a fictional pirate for a "side of crumbs", & you'll get some fried batter bits	Long John Silver's.

Italian filmmaker Michelangelo Antonioni died in 2007 at age 94 on the same day as this 89-year-old Swedish director	Ingmar Bergman.

San Diego County is estimated to have a million acres of this Spanish-named dense shrub growth	chaparral.

Aglets are found on the ends of these strings	shoelaces.

In 1889 this philanthropist funded his first U.S.

library in Braddock, Penn., home to one of his steel mills	Carnegie.

Songwriter Scott English started an urban myth when he jokingly said this 1975 Barry Manilow No.

1 hit was about a dog	"Mandy".

David Yazbek & Jeffrey Lane's musical "____ ____ Scoundrels"	Dirty Rotten.

Doing laundry in the sink, this "Jersey Shore" girl aka Nicole Polizzi said, "I feel like a pilgrim from the friggin' '20s"	Snooki.

A shapka is this: mikhavaya shapka is a fur one, to keep your ears warm	a hat.

String theory attempts to merge quantum mechanics with Einstein's general theory of this	relativity.

Raffaele Farina, known as Bibliothecarius XLVI, is its head librarian	the Vatican.

It's the breed of long-eared hound dog a tuxedo-clad Elvis is serenading here	Bassett.

Tennessee Williams' "____ Bird of Youth"	Sweet Bird of Youth.

This Algonquin wit was born in West End, N.J.

in 1893 & was a drama critic for Vanity Fair by 1917	Dorothy Parker.

"Idyot snyek" means this is happening, a common weather condition in January	snowing.

In certain string theories, you can get up to 26 of these; we're used to dealing with 4 of them, of which length is one	dimensions.

This Ivy League school's Nassau Hall once served as its library; today, books are housed in the Firestone library	Princeton.

Paul Anka & Donny Osmond both had hits with this tune that sounds like it's about a young dog's affection	"Puppy Love".

Mark Medoff's "Children of a ____ God"	Lesser.

Jersey City-born, this "Living Omnimedia" lifestyle maven was raised in Nutley, & that's a good thing	Martha Stewart.

Blinaya means this, the "hop" in IHOP	house of pancakes.

A successful string theory would describe nature's 4 forces: weak, strong, electromagnetism & this one	gravity.

This Maryland community is home to the National Library of Medicine & the National Naval Medical Center	Bethesda.

Title question posed by Patti Page in a 1953 smash	"How Much Is That Doggie In The Window?".

Noel Coward 's "____ Spirit"	Blithe Spirit.

This "Fudge"-tastic children's author was born in Elizabeth, New Jersey	Judy Blume.

To get around underground, the letter seen here stands for this word	metro.

String theory is part of this "P" branch of physics that studies eensy little items	particle.

Among this San Marino, California library's exhibits are a 15th century manuscript of "The Canterbury Tales" & a Gutenberg Bible	the Huntington Library.

Three word slogan that accompanied the RCA Victor advertisement seen here	His Master's Voice.

Howard Sackler's "The  ____ ____ Hope"	The Great White Hope.

Governor of New Jersey form 1994 to 2001, she appointed the state's first female Attorney General	Christine Whitman.

Russian word for a home like Novo-Ogarevo, Vladimir Putin's forest retreat near Moscow	a dacha.

Bosonic string theory has only bosons & none of these particles named for physicist Enrico	fermions.

Nazi Rudolf Hess in 1941 & the notorious Kray twins in 1952 were among the last people briefly held here	the Tower of London.

In the July 3, 1996 runoff, he defeated Gennadi Zyuganov	Boris Yeltsin.

This "Alien" actress starred in her long-time pal Christopher Durang's 1996 play "Sex and Longing"	Sigourney Weaver.

"Rare Air" is a photo biography of this basketball star	Michael Jordan.

The tires on Lindbergh's "Spirit of St.

Louis" were made by this former competitor of Goodyear	B.F.

Goodrich.

This "Messiah" composer's first job was as a church organist in Halle, Germany, at age 17	Georg Handel.

"You can't make a silk purse" out of this	a sow's ear.

In 1996 this Russian newspaper stopped publishing after 84 years	Pravda.

Don't blink--or you'll miss Richard Dreyfuss in this 1967 film based on a Jacqueline Susann novel	Valley of the Dolls.

This actor-director is the subject of David Thomson's biography "Rosebud"	Orson Welles.

In 1866, William A.

Breyer started the company that's now the oldest national producer of this	ice cream.

"Variations on a Theme by Haydn" was this "lullaby" composer's first major work for full orchestra	Johannes Brahms.

"Imitation is the sincerest form of" it, but beware, it "corrupts both the receiver and the giver"	flattery.

In April of 1996, Russian rockets killed Dzhokhar Dudayev, this breakaway republic's leader	Chechnya.

This "Seinfeld" co-star became a Broadway star at age 23 in Stephen Sondheim's musical "Merrily we Roll Along"	Jason Alexander.

"Shalom, Friend" tells of "The Life and Legacy" of this slain Israeli leader	Yitzhak Rabin.

This San Francisco-based clothing company's full name includes "De Corps"	Esprit.

In 1977, his "Immortal Beloved" was identified as Antonie Brentano, wife of a merchant	Beethoven.

It's where you should "never tell tales"	out of school.

Abbreviated CIS, it replaced the USSR	Commonwealth of Independent States.

John Mahoney, who plays Martin Crane on this sitcom, was born in England; he moved to the U.S.

when he was 19	Frasier.

"The Education of a Woman" by Carolyn G.

Heilbrun tells of this feminist and famous Ms	Gloria Steinem.

From 1875 to 1989, this New York company's name included "Glassworks"	Corning.

This father-in-law of Richard Wagner died July 31, 1886, during the Wagner festival at Bayreuth	Franz Liszt.

The saying "Strike while the iron is hot" originally alluded to this profession	blacksmith.

They're the colors of the three stripes on the Russian flag	red, white, and blue.

Professional name used by the actress seen here during her film career; it's different from her married name (clip from "Hellcats of the Navy")	Nancy Davis.

Known for his "Compleat Angler", he also wrote a biography of his friend, writer John Donne	Izaak Walton.

This Warner-Lambert product contains retsyn, a finely homogenized vegetable oil	Certs.

He composed his "Leningrad Symphony" during the World War II siege of Leningrad	Dmitri Shostakovich.

These two things "wait for no man"	time and tide.

Justices Butler, Van DeVanter, Sutherland, and McReynolds opposed this president's "New Deal"	F.D.

Roosevelt.

This Scandinavian language changed "aa" to a circle-topped "a", making it closer to Swedish and Norwegian	Danish.

In 1633 this astronomer was found guilty of "vehement suspicion of heresy"	Galileo.

Union pay department officers wore the M1840, one of these weapons that featured a straight 31" all-gilt blade	Sword.

In stanza three of "The Star Spangled Banner", he mocks "The hireling and slave" who doubt America's victory	Francis Scott Key.

This city's Hartsfield International overtook O'Hare as the world's busiest airport even before the Summer Olympics	Atlanta.

This president called his 1953 appointment of Earl Warren "the biggest damn' fool mistake I ever made"	Eisenhower.

All of the Romance languages have their roots in this language	Latin.

This botanist was hailed as "The Wizard of Tuskegee"	George Washington Carver.

On May 29, 1865, he issued a general amnesty for most rebels; the rich and those with high ranks weren't included	Andrew Johnson.

Poe said this maiden "lived with no other thought than to love and be loved by me"	Annabel Lee.

For about $200 a whack, you can spend the night at the Fall River MA home of this alleged murderess	Lizzie Borden.

In 1995 two justices rejected The Citadel's appeal of an order to admit her	Shannon Faulkner.

Balinese is spoken on several islands of this country	Indonesia.

The symbol "J" as a unit of energy honors this physicist	Joule.

In June of 1861, Dorothea Dix was appointed to supervise the female ones of these	nurses.

Originally, he didn't want his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" published	Gray.

They're the two main ingredients in a Cape Codder cocktail	cranberry juice and vodka.

He served as Chief Justice the longest; 34 years from 1801-1835	John Marshall.

Hungarians call their official language this	Magyar.

In 1791 this Italian published the results of his experiments in "animal electricity"	Luigi Galvani.

In the Gettysburg campaign, Lee's forces were along Seminary Ridge and the federal forces along this ridge	Cemetery Ridge.

His series "Bells and Pomegranates" included "Pippa Passes" and "My Last Duchess"	Robert Browning.

Muhammad received the first of the Koran's revelations during this holy month	Ramadan.

After the 1987 rejection of this man's nomination to the court, Anthony Kennedy filled Powell's seat	Robert Bork.

Punjabi is spoken by about half of all households in this country	Pakistan.

His 1637 "Discours de la methode" prefaced a series of essays on optics, meteorology, and geometry	Rene Descartes.

Hero of the War of 1812 and the Mexican War, he resigned November 1, 1861, as head of the Union army	Winfield Scott.

This poet to whom T.S.

Eliot dedicated "The Wasteland" ended up in a mental institution	Ezra Pound.

It's the smaller of the two bones in the lower leg	the fibula.

It was once believed that this river "originated in the Mountains of the Moon"	the Nile.

In June 1991 weightlessness experiments were conducted on about 2,500 jellyfish aboard this	the Space Shuttle.

If you want to hit this type of "contained" home run, you probably will need to run really fast	an inside-the-park home run.

This 2-word term, also a movie title, is slang for Navy Fighter Weapons School	Top Gun.

In 1953 sculptor William Zorach created the relief "Man and Work" for this Rochester, Minnesota clinic	the Mayo Clinic.

S.

Duncan Black & this partner filed a patent for a drill in 1914	Decker.

If you're scared, you might be "shaking like" this botanical item	a leaf.

The ARS, an agency of this U.S.

government department, is looking to develop better bio-insecticides	the Department of Agriculture.

In 1925 N.Y.

Journal-American writer Bill Corum first called the Kentucky Derby the "run for" these	the roses.

"Angels" is slang for this measurement of height, in thousands of feet	altitude.

This country's 12th century sculptor Unkei is known for his wooden statues carved for Buddhist temples	Japan.

This maker of optical products borrowed money from his good friend Henry Lomb, but it turned out okay	Bausch.

Adjective found before "as leather" & "as nails"	tough.

Despite the fierce appearance of this plated beast, scientists believe it to have been an herbivore	a Stegosaurus.

Due to an increase of endorphins in the brain, it's a state of euphoria experienced by exercisers	runner's high.

"SAR" stands for this, the effort to extract a downed aircrew in a combat zone	search and rescue.

Bartolommeo Ammannati designed this city's Fountain of Neptune & the courtyard of the Pitti Palace	Florence.

Book publisher Henry Houghton made this guy his partner	(George) Mifflin.

This ichthyological simile might apply to someone spending too much time at the bar	drinking like a fish.

Platinum, atomic number 78, is worth more than this other metal, atomic number 79	gold.

This 2-word hoops term is an offensive rush to beat the defense to the hoop	a fast break.

A "polliwog" has never crossed this geographic line while aboard ship	the equator.

An art museum on Madison Avenue is named for this sculptress who created the Titanic Memorial in Washington, D.C.	Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney.

Postage meter inventor Arthur Pitney merged his company with that of this entrepreneur	(Walter) Bowes.

Ironically, something incomprehensible is said to be "as clear as" this 3-letter word	mud.

In 2009 a new hominid skeleton dubbed Ardi was aged at 4.4 million years, predating this other "girly" find by 1 mil.

years	Lucy.

In the modern pentathlon, athletes go 3,000 meters in this hyphenated type of running	cross-country.

A "ROAD" scholar is "retired on" this (coasting until actual retirement)	active duty.

This English sculptor made one of his reclining figures for the 1951 Festival of Britain	Henry Moore.

A crossword puzzle book started it all for Richard L.

Simon & this publishing partner	Schuster.

(Here's Jimmy.)  He is depicting this common simile about a criminal who's been at it a long time & isn't good at not getting caught	a rap sheet as long as your arm.

It's located about 30 miles south of the DMZ	Seoul.

"Beauty school dropout, no graduation day for you"	Grease.

Temperance Brennan is accused of mishandling an autopsy in Kathy Reichs' "206" these body parts	Bones.

(Alex reports from the Newseum in Washington, D.C.)  This is the microphone used for World War II English-language broadcasts by this woman, broadcasts that earned her a treason conviction; many years later, President Ford pardoned her	Tokyo Rose.

The constellation between Cancer & Virgo	Leo.

From the Greek for "shape", it means to transform an image into something else by computer	morph.

Until 1918 & the collapse of the dynasty, it was home base for the Hapsburgs	Vienna.

"A boy like that who'd kill your brother, forget that boy & find another, one of your own kind"	West Side Story.

Hey, y'all, this CNN legal analyst made the list with her novel "The Eleventh Victim"	Nancy Grace.

(Alex reports from the Newseum in Washington, D.C.)  In a sensational 1930s trial, the New York Journal paid for Bruno Hauptmann's defense in exchange for his wife's story; Hauptmann was later executed in this electric chair for the murder of this child	the Lindbergh baby.

Not guilty	Innocent.

In the scientific classification of animals, it's Chordata for a domesticated dog	phylum.

It's the largest English-speaking city in the Caribbean, mon	Kingston (Jamaica).

"Shoeless Joe from Hannibal, Mo.

Lucky are we to be having him"	Damn Yankees.

In "Dead and Gone" by Charlaine Harris, this "True Blood" waitress searches for the killer of a werepanther	Sookie Stackhouse.

(Alex reports from the Newseum in Washington, D.C.)  The Newseum is also home to the studio from which ABC's "This Week" is broadcast, hosted by this former Clinton administration advisor; I'm in his seat	(George) Stephanopoulos.

From the Latin for "blessed"	Benedict.

The bar type is one common form of this chart	graph.

This South American capital's original longer name translated to "Saint Mary of the Fair Winds"	Buenos Aires.

"Once I'm with the Wizard my whole life will change, 'cuz once you're with the Wizard no one thinks you're strange"	Wicked.

"Homer & Langley" by this author of "Ragtime" details the lives of the reclusive Collyer Brothers	(E.L.) Doctorow.

(Alex reports from the Newseum in Washington, D.C.)  After a great deal of debate, newspapers published this man's angry manifesto; it led to his being tracked to Montana & captured in this very cabin	(Ted) Kaczynski (the Unabomber).

The winner of a contest	Victor.

Now meaning those who are hostile to the arts, in biblical times it was a people subdued by King David	a Philistine.

On a plane trip to this capital, you'd likely land at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport	Jakarta.

"Suddenly Seymour is standing beside me, he don't give me orders, he don't condescend"	Little Shop of Horrors.

Richard DiLallo & this author teamed to write "Alex Cross's 'Trial	(James) Patterson.

(Alex reports from the Newseum in Washington, D.C.)  A key moment in the Civil Rights era was a sit-in protest after four black students were refused service at an all-white F.W.

Woolworth lunch counter in this North Carolina city	Greensboro, North Carolina.

From a Latin word for "doer of good"	Boniface.

Because the Greek goddess Artemis was associated with the Moon, she was also called this, which means "light one"	Phoebe.

In 1928, the 100th anniversary of his death, a $10,000 prize was offered for the completion of his 8th Symphony	(Franz) Schubert.

It's paired with liberty in the Pledge of Allegiance	justice.

Even before Thomas Edison, Sir Joseph Wilson Swan was aglow with his invention of this	light bulb.

The NFL's Saints	New Orleans.

Confederate general Jubal Early idolized this general, who called him "My Bad Old Man"	Robert E.

Lee.

The akepa & akiapola'au are found in forest areas, only in this state	Hawaii.

This mythological bird was reborn from a worm which emerged from its funeral ashes	phoenix.

We assume that Bill Clinton was born with it; we know he was born in it	Hope.

And now the weather forecast: tonight expect these gentle winds of 4 to 7 miles per hour	light breezes.

MLB's Royals	Kansas City.

After moving back to the U.S.

from Canada in 1869, Early, rebel that he was, wore only this color	gray.

The only birds in the family Trochilidae are these "hovercrafts"	hummingbirds.

He told the Diet of Worms, "I do not accept the authority of popes and councils"	Martin Luther.

You "Gotta Have" this virtue; at least according to George Michael	Faith.

Herbie, the endearing Volkswagen in a classic Disney film	The Love Bug.

The NBA's Cavaliers	Cleveland.

In July 1864, Early & his troops threatened this city & were later criticized for not taking it	Washington, D.C..

During mating season the male ruff develops a large frill of feathers around this body part	neck.

In "Henry VI, Part 3", Clifford tells the king that "The smallest worm will" do this "being trodden on"	turn.

It was the "T" in the 19th century's WCTU	Temperance.

Oscar-nominated for her role in "Goodfellas", she went on to play Dr.

Jennifer Melfi on "The Sopranos"	Lorraine Bracco.

The NHL's  Senators	Ottawa.

Before the Civil War, Early had garrison duty in the Mexican War under this man, "Old Rough and Ready"	Zachary Taylor.

This falcon's name is from the Latin for "foreign" or "a foreigner"	peregrine.

The name of this red shade is from the Latin for "worm"; the dye was first made from cochineal insects	vermillion.

This virtue is also a name of a Rhode Island island & of prim, cautious women	Prudence.

In 1893 this horticulturist published his first nursery catalog offering his "New Creations in Fruits and Flowers"	Luther Burbank.

MLS' Burn	Dallas.

Early, a man known for his patriarchal beard, was active in this party in Virginia in the 1840s	Whig.

The scientific name of this big bird is Diomedea exulans, as in "exile"	albatross.

In this 1965 sci-fi novel, giant sandworms on the planet Arrakis create a much-desired spice called melange	"Dune".

Its near islands are farthest from its mainland; Kodiak is closer	Alaska.

Of an artist, a fish, or a wasp, it's what a mud dauber is	wasp.

In book titles, this adjective precedes Gertrude Stein's "Buttons" & Fitzgerald's "is the Night"	Tender.

It was viva Las Vegas for Julia, who played the Angie Dickinson role in the remake of this film	Ocean's Eleven.

It's the trimester of pregnancy in which women gain the least weight	first.

It's the one of the 4 gospels in the New Testament that fits the category	Matthew.

Cimarron & Beaver are counties in its Panhandle	Oklahoma.

In 1943 McKinley Morganfield, under this name, settled in Chicago & continued singing the blues	Muddy Waters.

Check out this famous British woman's 2002 book "Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World"	Margaret Thatcher.

(Hi, I'm Leonard Maltin)  I like to think of this 2000 Julia Roberts movie as an "Energetic, engaging David vs.

Goliath story"	Erin Brockovich.

Set down that plastic bottle -- CNN reports that you don't really need this mythical number of glasses of water a day	8.

It can precede "sickness" or "beauty" as well as "porch"	sleeping.

To go from Norwalk to Norwich in this state, head east on I-95 to I-395 north	Connecticut.

The phrase "His name is mud" predates Dr.

Mudd's setting this assassin's leg, so it doesn't mean the doctor	John Wilkes Booth.

Watch out for "personal injuries" if you lift all his legal thrillers, including "Personal Injuries", at once	Scott Turow.

The 2 movies in which Julia starred opposite Richard Gere	Pretty Woman & Runaway Bride.

Often given with progesterone, it's the main hormone in hormone replacement therapy	estrogen.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew having a pass thrown to him by Charlie Batch of the Pittsburgh Steelers)  The name of this pass pattern is also a type of fastener	buttonhook.

Commonwealth whose state seal ["United We Stand, Divided We Fall"] is seen here	Kentucky.

This poem set in Mudville was first published in the San Francisco Examiner, in 1888	"Casey at the Bat".

It's the third book of the autobiographical trilogy that began with "Tropic of Cancer"	"Triopic of Capricorn" (by Henry Miller).

In her first major role, Julia served up Italian food New England style in this movie	Mystic Pizza.

In a "Got Milk" ad, Jennifer Love Hewitt says she hates this bone condition, so she has fat free milk with every meal	osteoporosis.

The petals of a flower considered as a group, or a model of Toyota	Corolla.

The 4 large stars on the flag of Arkansas represent the U.S., France, Spain & this	the Confederacy.

In 1999 scientists found the remains of one of these giant creatures embedded in the frozen mud in Siberia	mammoth.

Hawthorne's college classmate Horatio Bridge paid for the publication of this collection of "Tales"	"Twice-Told Tales".

Justine Bateman, not Julia, got top billing in this 1988 film about teenage girls who form a band	Satisfaction.

Joint pain is one symptom of SLE, a common disorder in women that's also called by this 5-letter name	lupus.

This Anglo-Saxon kingdom east of Cornwall was probably founded in the 6th century by Prince Cerdic & his son Cynric	Wessex.

This president shares his middle name with the name of a 1st C.

Jewish theologian mentioned in the New Testament	Warren Gamaliel Harding.

Scholars agree that the oldest form of this language can be found in the song of Deborah in Judges	Hebrew.

TV host seen here on the cover of Mad Magazine	Jeff Probst.

Ben Crenshaw & Phil Mickelson are the only 3-time winners of this college sport's championship tournament	golf.

Like Ptolemy, about whom he wrote, Theon placed this body in the center of the cosmos	Earth.

Type of whisper in the title of a Wham! hit	Careless.

An illusion, a fantasy, a pipe dream, or a Las Vegas hotel	Mirage.

This language is known by its speakers as Nederlands	Dutch.

What made this Mel Gibson character mad was outlaw bikers killing his wife & kid	Max.

(I'm Hall of Fame running back Tony Dorsett)  This man was my coach for my first 11 seasons in the NFL	Tom Landry.

Theon's home of Smyrna is now called Izmir & is one of the chief seaports of this country of Asia Minor	Turkey.

It's Southwest Airlines' name for the paper-free type of travel it introduced on all routes in January 1995	Ticketless.

A legendary weapon that emerged from a lake, or a Las Vegas hotel	Excalibur.

Of Inka, Dinka or Doo, an actual language spoken in southern Sudan	Dinka.

Back in the '60s Sue Kaufman wrote the "Diary of a Mad" this	Housewife.

In 1994, at age 45, he became heavyweight boxing champ again & was the AP's Male Athlete of the Year	George Foreman.

Theon's greatest work, available on Amazon.com, has mathematics useful for understanding this "Republic" author	Plato.

Putting it before "Communism", Harry Truman popularized the use of this word meaning "atheistic"	godless.

The European playground seen here, or a Las Vegas hotel	Monte Carlo.

More than 375 languages & dialects are spoken in this country's Madhya Pradesh state	India.

Clicking on the Encarta index entry of Mad Anthony will take you to this man	Anthony Wayne.

He was director of athletics at NYC's Downtown Athletic Club from 1928 to 1936	John Heisman.

Writing on these, Theon covers, among others, the circular, oblong, prime & even ones	numbers.

(Video clue of a pair of glasses; text unavailable due to sound problems)	rimless.

The bird Phoenicopterus ruber roseus, or a Las Vegas hotel	Flamingo.

Gaspar Karolyi's translation of the Bible in 1590 was influential in the development of this as a national language	Hungarian.

The Cold War nuclear balance was known as "MAD", mutually assured this	destruction.

In the 1992-93 season this Pittsburgh Penguin missed 24 games but still won the NHL scoring title	Mario Lemieux.

Theon seems to have lived at the same time that this Roman emperor was building his famous wall	Hadrian.

Jean-Paul Belmondo is the cool criminal Michel in this French New Wave classic	Breathless.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew riding in a Blue Angels jet)  On takeoff, for a high-performance climb, pilots can experience six times the force of this	gravity.

1980: "Evita"	Andrew Lloyd Webber.

Subject of Daniel Webster's March 7, 1850 & Frederick Douglass' July 5, 1852 speeches	slavery.

The Black Lung Program benefits those who worked as these, & their widows & their dependents	coal miners.

Iran & Pakistan both border this nation	Afghanistan.

Meg, Jo, Beth & Amy March have crushes on Rupert Birkin & Gerald Crich in this D.H.

Lawrence novel	Little Women in Love.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew on the tarmac)  When the Blue Angels perform the formation known for this precious gem, the jets are only 12 inches apart	diamond.

1993:  "The Who's Tommy"	Pete Townshend.

Nicholas Butler told Columbia grads, "An expert is one who knows more and more about" this and this	less and less.

State with the highest average monthly food stamp benefit per person; at over $100, that's a lot of poi	Hawaii.

When he launched the comic strip "Dilbert" in 1989, this man was an engineer working for Pacific Bell	Scott Adams.

Daisy Miller & Natty Bumppo could have joined forces in a novel by this author	Henry James Fenimore Cooper.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew riding in a Blue Angels jet)  With a ceiling of over 50,000 feet, the Blue Angels jets, FA-18s, are known by the name of this insect	hornet.

1973: "A Little Night Music"	Stpehen Sondheim.

This onetime governor of Texas delivered the keynote speech at the 1988 Democratic Convention	Ann Richards.

Perkins & Stafford Loans & Pell Grants are for these people	college students.

In February 1999 several of these killed 38 people in the Austrian towns of Galtur & Valzur	avalanches.

Clym Yeobright comes back home & is killed by Bigger Thomas in this Thomas Hardy-Richard Wright work	Return of the Native Son.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew on the tarmac)  Bearing the name of a Greek letter, this classic Blue Angels formation uses all 6 jets	Delta.

1950: "South Pacific"	Richard Rodgers.

On July 19, 1988 he was out proclaiming "Keep hope alive"	Jesse Jackson.

The National School Lunch Program comes from this dept., also concerned with foot-and-mouth disease	Agriculture.

From Greek words meaning "to watch from both sides", it's a large open arena for public entertainments	amphitheatre.

American ambulance driver Frederic Henry satirizes romantic ideas about war in this work by Hemingway & Shaw	A Farewell to Arms and the Man.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew on the tarmac)  Using only 5 planes, this formation pays tribute to fallen heroes & comrades	Missing Man Formation.

1949: "Kiss Me, Kate"	Cole Porter.

In 1653 he told the Rump Parliament to get off its rump & "In the name of God, go!"	Oliver Cromwell.

This cabinet department operates over 160 hospitals & has guaranteed over 16 million loans	Veterans Affairs.

It's the color mentioned in the second line of "America the Beautiful"	amber.

The horror!  The horror!  Marlow travels up the Congo to find Kurtz & Rubashov in a totalitarian prison state	Heart of Darkness at Noon.

Edison proposed a flying machine based on the flight of this creature, also the subject of a musical work	bumblebee.

It's the Canadian province that borders Idaho	British Columbia.

The dwarf variety of this cold-blooded killer is seen here	Crocodile.

This Navy commander flew from a base at Little America to the South Pole & back Nov.

28-29, 1929	Admiral Richard Byrd.

One of the few times she laughs in Wonderland is when she has to use a flamingo to play croquet	Alice.

Any lab	Albany.

Singer Tom Jones is the son of one of these workers; Loretta Lynn is famous for being the daughter of one	Coal miner.

One of the newer large cities in the world, it's located in the central plateau of Brazil	Brasilia.

A river, a city & a hound all bear the name of this member of the deer family	Elk.

Accused of accepting bribes, Francis Bacon was imprisoned in this forbidding complex in 1621	Tower of London.

She ate the window pane of the witch's cottage	Gretel.

Males	Salem.

Tom hails from Pontypridd in this British Isles country	Wales.

Since 1969 this Northern Ireland port city of 300,000 has been the site of violent religious conflict	Belfast.

The critter seen here (bulldog) is a symbol of this nation	Great Britain.

More than 250,000 died in fighting before France granted this African nation independence July 3, 1962	Algeria.

She would have been popular in the '60s; she was always letting her hair down	Rapunzel.

Proved nice	Providence.

Tom played -- who else? -- himself on the "Marge Gets a Job" episode of this animated TV series in 1992	The Simpsons.

This city located on the Rhine River became West Germany's capital in 1949	Bonn.

These predatory birds are named for a place they might dwell	Barn owls.

In 1784 she founded the city of Sevastopol in her new domain of the Crimea	Catherine the Great.

The Brothers Grimm gave no name for the miller's daughter who guessed the name of this little man	Rumpelstiltskin.

Poke at	Topeka.

Tom played -- who else? -- in this 1996 Tim Burton film about invaders from outer space	Mars Attacks!.

It's the capital of Catalonia	Barcelona.

It's the genus & species of this animal ("caveman")	Homo sapiens.

This Portuguese "Admiral of the Indian Seas" discovered & named the Amirante Islands	Vasco da Gama.

He wrote a little about women: "The Little Match Girl", "The Little Mermaid"...	Hans Christian Andersen.

Leg hair	Raleigh.

It's not odd that this 1965 song is heard in the 1998 film "Little Voice"	"It's Not Unusual".

When Lenin moved to Paris in 1908, he naturally settled on this bank of the Seine	Left Bank.

The Bing & other sweet varieties of this fruit are self-sterile; they cannot pollinate themselves	Cherries.

"Amleto"	Hamlet.

The French for "scandal" gave us the name of this high-kicking dance popular in music halls of the 19th century	Can-Can.

This TV star played a senator who had his "Hawkeye" on Meryl Streep in "The Seduction of Joe Tynan"	Alan Alda.

In book 13 country boy Tom arrives in this metropolis, where the climactic action takes place	London.

For speaking too "Candide"ly, he did time in the Bastille, but later lived in a mansion on Ile St-Louis	Voltaire.

The Bartlett type of this fruit begins to ripen in summer; other varieties ripen later in the year	Pears.

"Il Mercante Di Venezia"	The Merchant of Venice.

This phrase for taking a break from a long period of sitting goes back to 19th century baseball	Seventh-inning stretch.

This Beatle not only strarred in "Give My Regards to Broad Street", he wrote the screenplay & the score	Paul McCartney.

This author of the novel based the heroine, Sophia, on his beloved late wife	Henry Fielding.

The voice of this woman, born in Paris in 1915, evokes the city in songs like "Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien"	Edith Piaf.

This fruit often originates from peach seeds & peaches sometimes come from its seeds	Nectarines.

"Cordelia"	KIng Lear.

An illustrated "girl" & a variation on the martini are named for this U.S.

artist	Charles Dana Gibson.

"Titanic" tied this 1959 film's record of 11 Oscars but didn't overtake it	Ben-Hur.

Tom finally learns the true identity of this person; he thought it was Jenny the maid	His mother.

In the 1880s he introduced his brother & roommate, Vincent, to the Impressionists	Theo Van Gogh.

A cluster, or hand, of this fruit consists of 10-20 fingers	Bananas.

"Der Sturm"	The Tempest.

From the Italian for "chatter", it's a person who claims knowledge or skill he doesn't have	Charlatan.

Roy Rogers sang "Buttons and Bows" with Bob Hope & Jane Russell in this sequel to "The Paleface"	Son of Paleface.

The benevolent Mr.

Allworthy & the crude Mr.

Western have this title given to English country gentlemen	Squire.

This saint taught at the University of Paris while working on "Summa Theologica" in the 13th century	St.

Thomas Aquinas.

This hybrid of a tangerine & a grapefruit comes in 2 main varieties: Orlando & Minneola	Tangelo.

"Beaucoup de Bruit Pour Rien"	Much Ado About Nothing.

2 Greek words for "long life" give us this word which refers to a diet or lifestyle said to prolong life	Macrobiotic.

As a child, this "Doctor Zhivago" co-star had a bit role in her father's film "Limelight"	Geraldine Chaplin.

This "Kubla Khan" poet thought "Tom Jones" had 1 of the 3 best plots in all literature	Samuel Taylor Coleridge.

On Nov.

20, 1953, in a Douglas D-558-2, Scott Crossfield reached this benchmark	Traveling twice the speed of sound.

This current Secretary-General is the first U.N.

career official to hold the post	Kofi Annan.

It's what "everybody in the whole cell block was dancin' to"	"Jailhouse Rock".

This company's '99 Quest minivan & Mercury's '99 Villager -- same thing	Nissan.

The University of Phoenix has a branch in this city	Tucson.

This mythical barrier cut off the Soviet Union & its friends after World War II	Iron Curtain.

Many 17th century New York City households had one of these to form a brigade in case of fire	Bucket.

At the time only a secretary-general to-be, this Egyptian played a major role in the 1979 Arab-Israeli peace accord	Boutros Boutros-Ghali.

Willie Nelson must be "wond'rin' what in the world did I do" by writing this Patsy Cline hit	"Crazy".

Cadillac doesn't want to rub you the wrong way with its new optional front seats that do this to you	Massage.

Henry VII was the first ruler from this family on the throne of England	Tudor.

The male lead in "The French Lieutenant's Woman"; Meryl Streep played the title character	Jeremy Irons.

Since 1932 this brand has provided reliable flames for soldiers, campers & others	Zippo.

In the 1960s this Burmese secretary-general sought to apply Buddhist principles to international problem solving	U Thant.

"It's a marvelous night for" this Van Morrison hit, "with the stars up above in your eyes"	"Moondance".

This Chrysler brand has flown the coop with the end of production of its Talon	Eagle.

Creature seen here in a non-candid photo	Tuna.

It's gold!  Gold, I tell you!  Gold!!!  Oh, no -- it's not...

it's this, fool's gold	Iron pyrite.

Oliver Wendell Holmes said not to falsely yell "Fire" in one of these, where 850 Viennese died Dec.

8, 1881	Theater.

Trying to resolve problems in the Congo, this Swedish secretary-general died in a plane crash in Africa in 1961	Dag Hammarskjold.

Having this title problem, Barry Manilow sings, "I can't laugh and I can't sing, I'm finding it hard to do anything"	"Can't Smile Without You".

The '99 Saab 9-5 offers a real cool option: this is "refrigerated"	Glove compartment.

From the Latin for "uproar", it's a confusion of voices	Tumult.

Bruce Dickinson was the lead singer of this British heavy metal band	Iron Maiden.

Peshtigo, Wisc.

was destroyed by a fire that began Oct.

8, 1871, the same day as this city's Great Fire	Chicago.

This Oslo-born secretary-general served in the Norwegian government in exile during WWII	Trygve Lie.

A standard song says of this "fickle friend", it "came blowin' in from across the sea"	"The Summer Wind".

Your pocketbook may not "Bond" with the $130,000 base price of its DB7 Coupe	Aston Martin.

The ruins of Carthage are in this country	Tunisia.

This Prusso-German statesman was the "Iron Chancellor"	Otto von Bismarck.

2-word phrase for what sometimes happens to oily rags & often happens to the drummers of Spinal Tap	Spontaneous combustion.

You might have to take a bullet to earn one of these	Purple Heart.

Mike Myers travels from '60s London to Vegas in the '90s as this "International Man of Mystery"	Austin Powers.

This legendary dozen included 2 Jameses, 2 Judases & an eventual replacement named Matthias	Twelve Apostles/disciples.

"Listen, my children, and you shall hear of the midnight ride of Paul Revere"	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.

Richard Pryor was the first recipient of a Kennedy Center humorists' prize named for this American author	Mark Twain.

John Lithgow played a transsexual former football player in this 1982 movie based on a John Irving novel	The World According to Garp.

In 1893 the queen seen here (Liliuokalani) became the last monarch of this country	Hawaii.

The sixth of these was an outbreak of boils & sores	Ten Plagues of Egypt.

"Whan that Aprill with his shoures soote the droghte of March hath perced to the roote"	Geoffrey Chaucer.

This word can refer to laziness, a 2-toed mammal, or a group of bears	Sloth.

In "Good Will Hunting", Stellan Skarsgard had a Fields Medal, called "The Nobel Prize of" this discipline	Mathematics.

John Larroquette played Captain Stillman in this wacky 1981 comedy about misfits in the Army	Stripes.

1952: Infant king Fu'ad II	Egypt.

It's the Greek term meaning "5 tools" that represents the 1st 5 books of the Bible	Pentateuch.

"His pride had cast him out from heaven, with all his host of rebel angels"	John Milton (from "Paradise Lost").

This term for a group of elk also applies to sharks (the ones in "West Side Story")	Gang.

"Pearls for Pigs" was 1998's best play in these off-Broadway awards given by the Village Voice	Obies.

Julia Ormond was the chauffeur's daughter in love with a rich playboy in this 1995 update of a 1954 classic	Sabrina.

1910: King Manuel II	Portugal.

For Muslims: witnessing, prayer, alms giving, fasting & pilgrimage	Five Pillars of Faith.

"Tho' I've belted you an' flayed you, by the livin' gawd that made you, you're a better man than I am, Gunga Din"	Rudyard Kipling.

It's a feather filling for quilts, as well as a group of hares	Down.

Theodore Hesburgh, once president of this university, has been awarded over 100 honorary degrees	Notre Dame.

In 1985 Helena Bonham Carter portrayed this historic "Lady" on film	Lady Jane Grey.

1947: Eastern Europe's King Michael	Romania.

Right effort, right speech & right action are 3 parts of this noble Buddhist way	Eightfold Path.

"To see a world in a grain of sand and a heaven in a wild flower"	William Blake.

Wisconsin folks know a cete is a group of these carnivores	Badgers.

Bestselling author seen here (she's holding a large "A" & a large "Z")	Sue Grafton.

It's the lowest, flattest & smallest continent	Australia.

This part of Princess Diana's wedding ensemble was 25 feet long	Train.

A little mistake, or Yogi Bear's little buddy	Boo Boo.

"Tucker" marked the 1st time this father & son had worked together since "Sea Hunt" in the '60s	Lloyd & Jeff Bridges.

In case you want to book your flights now, this will be played in Tampa in 1991 & Minneapolis in 1992	The Super Bowl.

Italian cheesecake is made with this cheese whose name means "recooked"	Ricotta.

Abingdon, Windsor, Gravesend & Southend-On-Sea are on this European river	Thames.

The "Cuban" style of these shoe features came into style in the early 1900s	Heels.

An insect who hangs out in your four-poster, or what a private eye might slip under your mattress	Bedbug.

These brothers both became TV stars:  one ran Dodge City & the other led the Impossible Missions Force	James Arness & Peter Graves.

In 1989 Emerson Fittipaldi knocked Al Unser Jr.

out of this race on lap 199 & won	The Indianapolis 500.

The 2 cheeses coated with red wax named for towns, one in North Holland province, one in South	Edam & Gouda.

City that stands on the ruins of Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec people	Mexico City.

The patches European women wore on their faces in the 1600s were usually this color	Black.

A Russian grandmother, or her kerchief	Babushka.

David Canary, who's seen on "All My Children", claims to be a descendant of this famous frontierswoman	Calamity Jane (Martha Jane Canary).

The French Open tennis tournament is played on courts of this color clay	Red.

This cheese that has an orange rind originated in Alsace & is named for a city there	Muenster.

The highest airport in the world is Lhasa Airport in this country	TIbet.

Popular in the 18th century, Watteau gowns were inspired by Jean Antoine Watteau, who was one of these	Painter.

This oily dressing makes your hair glossy, but it sounds like it makes you smart	Brilliantine.

His uncle Francis Coppola directed him when he played the man to whom "Peggy Sue Got Married"	Nicolas Cage.

The Orangemen of Syracuse were NCAA champs in '88 & '89 in this Native American sport	Lacrosse.

This name refers to natural cheddar made in the U.S.

& is often confused with processed cheese	American cheese.

The hot water heating of this northern European capital is drawn directly from underground springs	Reykjavik, Iceland.

This turn-of-the-century "girl" wore a shortwaist dress with puffed sleeves & a Pompadour hairdo	Gibson Girl.

2-word French term for a small bundle of herbs, often tied together & used for flavoring	Bouquet Garni.

Pam Dawber's famous father-in-law	Tom Harmon.

In 1989 this Canadian team won its 1st Stanley Cup	Calgary Flames.

According to legend, it was created when a shepherd left a piece of cheese in a cave for several weeks	Roquefort.

Born Giovanni Caboto, this Venetian did his exploring in the service of England	John Cabot.

When this organ churns & makes perisstaltic waves, some people say it's "growling"	Stomach.

This clergyman who wrote "The Short History of New-England" in 1694 was the son of Increase Mather	Cotton Mather.

His sister Fanny Mendelssohn wrote some of the songs attributed to him	Felix Mendelssohn.

As viewed from Earth, it's the brightest planet in the nighttime sky	Venus.

Used as early as the 15th century, apostle spoons usually came in sets of this number	12 or 13 (if they included the Christ figure).

N.Y.

observes a holiday honoring the 1524 discovery of N.Y.

Harbor by this Italian navigator	Giovanni Verrazano.

The oval window is a membrane forming one of the boundaries between the middle & the inner parts of this	Ear.

He wrote "Cadillac Jack" & "Lonesome Dove" after "Terms of Endearment"	Larry McMurtry.

Of the 3 Bs, the 2 who died in Vienna	Beethoven & Brahms.

In August 1989 it became the last planet encountered by Voyager 2	Neptune.

Fireplace tool that consists of matching shaped boards, a metal nozzle & flexible leather sides	Bellows.

Ponce de Leon was looking for it when he discovered Florida; some are still looking for it today	Fountain of Youth.

They're also known as your zygomatic bones, & high ones are considered especially attractive	Cheekbones.

He lived for several weeks among the cannibalistic Typee before he wrote the book of the same name	Herman Melville.

It was rumored that he committed suicide over the failure of his last symphony, the "Pathetique"	Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky ("6th Symphony").

The 4 largest moons of this planet are called Galilean satellites after Galileo, who saw them in 1610	Jupiter.

A method of joining 2 pieces of wood at right angles named for its resemblance to a bird's tail	Dovetail.

His 1497-98 voyage to India opened the 1st all-water trade route between Europe & Asia	Vasco da Gama.

It's the tube that connects your nose & mouth with your larynx & esophagus	Pharynx.

Jack Kerouac's 1957 novel about the adventures of Dean Moriarty & friends as they travel the U.S.	"On The Road".

G.

Strepponi sang in "Nabucco", the opera that made this composer famous, & later married him	Giuseppe Verdi.

In 1971 Mariner 9 discovered a volcano on this planet rising 15 1/2 miles above the surface	Mars.

French for "Chinese Ornament", it refers to willow pattern china & some Chippendale furniture	Chinoisserie.

Tho he didn't find the Northwest Passage, this Frenchman established France's claim to Canada	Jacques Cartier.

The ovaries are part of both the reproductive system & this system which produces hormones	Endocrine System.

It was called "A Poem  Of Walt Whitman, An American" before it was called this	"Song of Myself".

Mussorgsky once lived with this "Scheherazade" composer who re-edited "Boris Godunov" after his death	Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov.

This remote planet orbits the sun at a 98 degree axis, almost lying on its side	Uranus.

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE): The kind of clock shown here, invented c.

1800 & named for the musical instrument it resembles:	Banjo Clock.

He is introduced as "The triple pillar of the world transformed into a strumpet's fool"	Marc Antony.

After this early battle, Americans retreated over Charlestown Neck	The Battle of Bunker Hill (or Breed's Hill).

The first letter ever turned by Vanna White on this game show was a "T"	Wheel of Fortune.

This "colorful" & controversial activist environmental group was formed in Canada in 1971	Greenpeace.

The diatonic or "Cajun" accordion is the official musical instrument of this state	Louisiana.

"Obey your thirst" and drink this	Sprite.

Lingerie is a fancy word for it	underwear.

On the evening of April 18, 1775 Robert Newman displayed 2 lanterns in this Boston structure	the Old North Church.

You might phone a friend on this game show hosted by Meredith Vieira	Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.

In 1970 President Nixon created this government body that sets and enforces national pollution control standards	the E.P.A..

This state's famous Derby at Churchill Downs is held annually on the first Saturday of May	Kentucky.

"Be all that you can be" in this military branch	the Army.

Abolitionist "railroad"	underground.

In 1774 the owner of the Peggy Stewart was forced to burn his ship & its 2,000-pound cargo of this taxed item	tea.

In this "Street"-wise game show, you have to predict answers given by people on the street	Street Smarts.

This triatomic allotrope of oxygen protects us from the full force of harmful ultraviolet rays	ozone.

New Englanders refer to this state as "Down East"	Maine.

This network says it's "The most trusted name in news"	CNN.

Vegetation growing beneath the trees in a forest	underbrush.

On September 23, 1779 he & his men successfully attacked a British convoy off Flamborough Head in the North Sea	John Paul Jones.

9 celebrities in a tic-tac-toe-like grid help contestants score 3 in a row on this show	Hollywood Squares.

An animal fills an ecological one of these in a community, from the French for "nest"	niche.

The name of this state comes from 2 Choctaw words that mean "red" & "people"	Oklahoma.

This shipping company asks, "What can Brown do for you?"	UPS.

The seaward pull away from shore after a wave has broken	undertow.

After the defeat at Yorktown, Gen.

Charles O'Hara, acting for this man, gave his sword to the Americans	Cornwallis.

Richard Karn hosts this game show where 2 clans match wits; survey says...	Family Feud.

In June 1992 over 100 heads of state met in Rio de Janeiro for this environmental "Summit"	the Earth Summit.

National Battlefield Parks include Manassas in Virginia & Kennesaw Mountain in this state	Georgia.

It's the popular query in Verizon's TV ads	Can you hear me now?.

It means to weaken support for something or to unearth too little ore	undermine.

In 1995 Alabama Gov.

James Mocked evolution theory by imitating this type of animal whose name means "to imitate"	an ape.

This TV "Friend" was a cheerleader at Mountain Brook High School in Alabama	Courteney Cox.

It was the pen name of beloved children's author Theodor Geisel	Dr.

Seuss.

The Judgement of Paris refers to the picking of a winner in one of these contests	a beauty contest.

We're not stringing you along: "El Retablo de Maese Pedro" is meant to be peformed by these toys	puppets.

In 1923 Lts.

Macready & Kelly made the first nonstop flight of this 16-letter type, Long Island to San Diego	transcontinental.

"Thus, from the war of nature, from famine and death, the most exalted object...

the production of the higher animals, directly follows."  That was the final paragraph of a famous work by this man	(Charles) Darwin.

This daughter of Francis Ford Coppola was an intern for fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld in Paris	Sofia Coppola.

In 1844 he succeeded Joseph Smith as leader of the Mormon Church	Brigham Young.

Ioalus, the son of Iphicles & Automedusa, helped this man, his uncle, with his labors	Hercules.

At the beginning of an 1893 opera, these little tykes are sent into the woods to pick strawberries	Hansel & Gretel.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew writes the names of the seven dwarfs on a blackboard.)  It's the re-ordering procedure that I'm implementing	alphabetizing.

He surprised many in 1996 when he told the Pontifical Academy of Science that evolution was no mere hypothesis	Pope John Paul II.

In 1991 Heather Tom was a teen when she debuted as Victor Newman's daughter on this CBS soap opera	The Young & the Restless.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew wearing goggles and parka stands before majestic mountains in the Sierra National Forest.)  The forested area behind me is named for this nature photographer and conservationist	Ansel Adams.

Like father like son--Cronus deposed his father Uranus & this god deposed his father Cronus	Zeus.

King Solomon is a character in "La Reine de Saba", an opera about the queen of this place	Sheba.

Adjective for an act done without meaning to; legally, it's a type of manslaughter	involuntary.

Orderly people are bothered by the idea of thse random changes in genetic material helping evolution along	mutations.

This "boulder" sized wrestler & movie star was a star football player at Freedom High School in Bethlehem, Pa.	The Rock.

At the 1855 World's Fair in Paris, one of his sewing machines won first prize	Singer.

Athena gave Perseus one of these to use as a mirror against Medusa &, reflecting back, it was a good thing	a shield.

Flosshilde is a Rhinemaiden in this composer's "Das Rheingold"	Richard Wagner.

This adjective from the Latin for "to boil" is used of a bubbly liquid or person	effervescent.

A 1981 Arkansas law called for balanced teaching of evolution & this opposite type of "science"	creationism.

He was known as Chan Kong Sang in his native Hong Kong where he was a teenage stuntman & fight choreographer	Jackie Chan.

He's the explorer seen here with a couple of his pals in 1909	Admiral Peary.

With a name from the Greek for "form", he appeared to people in their dreams	Morpheus.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew blows an alphorn in front of a Tyrolean chalet.)  Appropriately, an alphorn call is imitated in the overture to this 1829 Rossini opera	William Tell.

Among bodily noises, hiccup & burp are this type of word that imitates sound	an onomatopoeia.

It's the room where you'll find the masterpiece that includes "The Flood" & "The Creation of Eve"	the Sistine Chapel.

In 1956 Time magazine dubbed this abstract expressionist "Jack the Dripper"	Pollock.

This Rome landmark is 620 feet long by 513 wide-- plenty of room to run away from a wild beast	the Colosseum.

The L.

in Samuel L.

Jackson stands for this, like a certain bad, bad Mr.

Brown of song	Leroy.

Served by priests, it may not exceed 18% alcohol	communion wine.

Daniel Okrent: "Nine ___: The Anatomy of a Baseball Game"	Innings.

A new design or creation; necessity is often the mother of it	invention.

This Dutch master served as chairman of the Delft Artists' Guild from 1662-63 & 1670-71	Jan Vermeer.

Gamblers will love to know that the Hotel Yak & Yeti in this Nepalese capital houses the 2-story Casino Royale	Kathmandu.

Feel free to sing out this middle name of Martin Scorsese; it's the same as Pavarotti's first	Luciano.

Title of any priest's immediate boss; the U.S.

has 270 of them	bishop.

John Buchan, filmed by Hitchcock: "The Thirty-Nine ___"	Steps.

Be it a stick or cone, strawberry & sandalwood are popular fragrances of this	incense.

Aquarelle is a transparent, rather than opaque, type of this painting, as seen in Paul Klee's work "Quarry"	watercolor.

This island's Mataveri Intl.

Airport, the world's most remote, is serviced only by Chile's LAN Airlines	Easter Island.

Author Hawthorne would approve of this middle name of Ralph Fiennes	Nathaniel.

The priest's duty to keep your sins secret is traditionally protected by "the sanctity of" this booth	the confessional.

Elizabeth McNeill: "Nine and a Half ___"	Weeks.

A military badge of rank or qualification	insignia.

Andre Breton anagrammed this surrealist's name as "Avida Dollars"	Salvador Dali.

Beautiful Margaret Island in this river has been a Budapest park for more than 100 years	the Danube.

Her middle name is Louise; her last name at birth: Ciccone	Madonna.

Parish priests have their own one of these, John Vianney	patron saint.

Jeffrey Toobin: "The Nine: Inside the Secret World of the ___ ___"	Supreme Court.

Each Latin verb has 6 of these, including the perfect passive one, like optatus esse, "to have been desired"	infinitive.

This American female impressionist modeled for many of Degas' works, including "At the Milliner's"	(Mary) Cassatt.

You can buy samples of this fossilized resin at a museum devoted to it in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic	amber.

This middle name of actress Mary Masterson makes us wonder if she was named for Mary, Queen of Scots	Stuart.

This spiritual "director" doesn't arrange your holiday, he helps young men pursue their calling to the priesthood	a vocation director.

J.D.

Salinger: "Nine ___"	Stories.

Paul Apak Angilirq was a producer as Canada's IBC, this Broadcasting Corporation	Inuit.

Numbers cruncher needed! Must be member of AICPA, the American Institute of these	Certified Public Accountants.

...to 90 degrees south latitude & you'll find yourself here	the South Pole.

Anatomy-wise, the subscapularis is a muscle in this "cuff"	rotator.

After centuries of rule by the Ottoman Empire, Mesopotamia mostly became part of this new nation in 1932	Iraq.

As Al Capone in this 1987 film: "You can get further with a kind word and a gun than you can with just a kind word"	The Untouchables.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew stands outside the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio.)  The Cleveland Clinic pioneered group practice as opposed to private-- the founding doctors had worked as a team in the first AEF unit in France during this war	World War I.

Walk the Max Planck! We're Stephen Hawking a new position to be this type of scientist, like those guys	physicist.

...to this Indiana college town that was originally called Big St.

Joseph Station	South Bend.

To make an allusion to something	refer.

Mesopotamia stretched from the Taurus Mountains in the north to this gulf in the south	the Persian.

In this 1976 movie: "Here is a man who would not take it anymore.

A man who stood up against the scum"	Taxi Driver.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Cleveland Clinic.)  MI stands for myocardial infarction, or heart attack; MI also stands for this innovative type of heart surgery with tiny instruments that can reduce trauma & complications	minimally invasive.

They're out there! We need you to go get 'em! Channel your inner Boba Fett or "Dog" Chapman in this 2-word job	a bounty hunter.

...to Juba, capital of this new nation	South Sudan.

Reza Khan, born in Iran in 1878, & his son were these for a combined 54 years	shahs.

The epic poem of this Sumerian king includes an account of a great flood	Gilgamesh.

To Billy Crystal in this film: "I was gonna whack you.

But I was real conflicted about it"	Analyze This.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Cleveland Clinic.)  Single port surgery is an advanced method that mainly uses just one entry point; the Cleveland Clinic was the first hospital to extract one of these paired organs via the umbilicus	a kidney.

In the June 3, 2011 paper: this country wants new president after bomb explodes in Ali Saleh's presidential palace	Yemen.

...to this body of water that includes the Gulf of Tonkin & the Gulf of Thailand	the South China Sea.

Coloring something more rubicund makes it this	redder.

Transcribed in the 1800s, the Behistun Inscription is the Rosetta Stone for this type of writing developed in Mesopotamia	cuneiform.

In Italian, in this sequel: "Do me this favor..ask your friends...about me.

They'll tell you I know how to return a favor"	The Godfather Part II.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Cleveland Clinic.)  These files are fading into the past as the Clinic is on the forefront of "EMR", short for these, which are available to authorized doctors & personnel anytime, anywhere in the world	electronic medical records.

We have a primary need for this hyphenated job in our fancy French kitchen; only the head guy is your superior	sous-chef.

...to here, where you'll find the cities of Christchurch & Dunedin	the South Island.

Exalted to the rank of a god	deified.

From the Assyrian for "height", this stepped structure was used as a temple by Mesopotamian cultures	ziggurat.

"Goodfellas": "The two greatest things in life" are "never rat on" these "and always keep your mouth shut"	your friends.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the Cleveland Clinic.)  Robin Williams thanked the Cleveland Clinic team for his heart surgery, saying after getting a replacement one of these from a cow, "the grazing's been fun"	a valve.

Keith Downey developed rapeseed into this cooking product, now a huge cash crop for farmers in Saskatchewan	canola.

A man's harrowing escape from torture during the Spanish Inquisition is recounted in this Poe favorite	"The Pit and the Pendulum".

Meadow's dad had her boyfriend Jackie whacked on this show; A.J.

had a pretty rough time, too	The Sopranos.

Oct.

4, 2006 STOP This company's president & CEO Christina Gold rings opening bell STOP	Western Union.

The least populous	North Dakota.

Some speculate that this "merry old soul" of nursery rhyme fame was based on a real king of 3rd century Britain	Old King Cole.

These elected officials in the U.S.

government take their name from the Latin for "old man"	senators.

This lung disease claimed the life of Poe's 24-year-old wife	tuberculosis.

Sydney's dad, Jack, was a CIA double agent working against SD-6 on this Jennifer Garner show	Alias.

On Oct.

11, 2007 this chairman of the Virgin Group rang us up, but he didn't parachute in while on fire or anything	(Richard) Branson.

Its name does not have a Native American origin	New York.

This shepherdess found her sheep's tails all hung on a tree to dry, so she tried to "tack to each sheep its tail, oh"	Little Bo Peep.

Winter Olympic events using these first appeared at the 1998 Nagano games	snowboards.

In the world's first detective story, C.

Auguste Dupin solves the title crimes in "The Murders" here	the Rue Morgue.

(Jason Alexander of Seinfeld reads the clue.) When this "boss" of mine mistakenly told my dad I was dead, Dad responded, "What the hell did you trade Jay Buhner for?"	George Steinbrenner.

& then I saw him / Right there & like that / On Leap Day 2000 /  'Twas...	the Cat in the Hat.

The Oregon Trail crossed it	Nebraska.

Some say these 2 were actually Louis XVI & Marie Antoinette, who were beheaded (or broke their crowns) in 1793	Jack & Jill.

Specifically, to give a shopper less money back than he is entitled to	shortchange.

Spoiler alert!  "The Cask of" this potent potable tells of a man sealing his enemy up behind a wall...

alive!	Amontillado.

Mark Hamill played the oldest of Dick Van Patten's octet of kids in the pilot but not the series of this show	Eight Is Enough.

Sept.

24, 2007 found this Bush cabinet member away from her piano & playing the bell	Condi Rice.

The largest in area	Nebraska.

It's the type of nail referred to in the nursery rhyme "All for Want of a Nail"	a horseshoe nail.

Term for an early 20th century female agitator for women's voting rights	a suffragist.

This French "Flowers of Evil" author translated Poe's tales into French	Charles Baudelaire.

Howard Cunningham actually had 3 kids on this show, but Chuck was never seen after Season 2	Happy Days.

Oh, come on! On Feb.

28, 2008 this TV "Kitchen Nightmares" man added a touch of bell to his resume	Gordon Ramsey.

Its cities include Minot, Jamestown & Grand Forks	North Dakota.

After singing for his supper, he ate "white bread and butter"	Little Tommy Tucker.

Eternally doomed rock roller of Greek mythology	Sisyphus.

This state's official saltwater fish, the tarpon, can be found in the Gulf of Mexico & in the Mobile Estuary	Alabama.

1989:  Heather McNamara, Heather Chandler, Heather Duke	Heathers.

I bought a special log to grow the shiitake type of these; let's grill some right now	mushrooms.

Prussian Baron Friedrich von Steuben arrived at this location in the winter of 1778 to train American troops	Valley Forge.

To "go" this, meaning all the way, comes from an 18th c.

poem about inability to decide which part of the pig to eat	whole hog.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew monitors a sleep study at the Sleep Research Center at Stanford University.)  Doctors for this center linked dreaming with this phase of sleep that includes higher heart & respiration rates	REM sleep.

A subspecies of cutthroat trout, the Bonneville cutthroat is native to this state & is its state fish	Utah.

1942: Ugarte, Sascha, Major Strasser	Casablanca.

Yummy!  Bubbie made some of these potato pancakes, & it isn't even Hanukkah	latkes.

In 1814 the congress of this city met to redraw Europe	Vienna.

Jacobins in the French Revolution proudly called themselves these, now describing people who use fear to persuade	terrorists.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew holds a CPAP device at the Sleep Research Center at Stanford University.)  Stanford is running a trial of the CPAP device, which provides continuous positive airway pressure to help this chronic condition where breathing is interrupted	sleep apnea.

The reef triggerfish, this state's state fish, can be found as far south as Australia	Hawaii.

1982: Mr.

Hand, Stacy Hamilton, Jeff Spicoli	Fast Times at Ridgemont High.

Let's make Craig Claiborne's recipe for an upside-down type of this fruit pie; it's a lot like tarte tatin	apple pie.

As a 19th century emperor of this country, Minh Mang executed several French Catholic missionaries	Vietnam.

Coined in the '70s, the term "Ebonics" comes from these 2 words	ebony & phonics.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew bothers a sleeper with her clue at the Sleep Research Center at Stanford University.)  Doctors are studying not only insomnia, but parasomnia, which includes night terrors & this condition, from the Latin for "sleep" & "walk"	somnambulism.

Maryland's state fish, the rockfish, is also known as the striped species of this	bass.

1998: Richard Burbage, Queen Elizabeth, Viola de Lesseps	Shakespeare in Love.

I can't pass up the mousse d'ecrevisse, made with these freshwater crustaceans	crayfish.

The African country of Burkina Faso was once known as "Upper" this	Volta.

Politically, this word for a region reflecting a large trend comes from a lead sheep with a ringer around its neck	a bellwether.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew looks over some sleep data at the Sleep Research Center at Stanford University.)  The Sleep Center at Stanford Hospital & Clinics discovered the gene for this disorder involving sudden sleep, from the Greek for "numb"	narcolepsy.

Florida's state saltwater fish is this game fish known for its raised dorsal fin & spear-like nose	a sailfish.

1994: Jenny Curran, Lt.

Dan, "Bubba" Blue	Forrest Gump.

Let's go Penn.

Dutch & have this dish, bits of pork mixed with cornmeal mush, then shaped into loaves & fried	scrapple.

In 1323 Lithuanian Grand Duke Gediminas made this city his capital	Vilnius.

The name of this South American snake comes from an Asian word, as it may have been mistaken for an Asian python	an anaconda.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew points to a brain on a computer screen at the Sleep Research Center at Stanford University.)  This part of the brain that connects to the spinal cord is vital for dreaming, as it produces chemicals that keep other parts of the brain active	the medulla oblongata (or the brain stem).

Born in Kiev & later a U.S.

citizen, this leader became prime minister in 1969 of a country founded in the 20th century	Golda Meir.

This Wyoming capital is home to the annual Frontier Days celebration	Cheyenne.

RMN	Richard Milhous Nixon.

When this Mouseketeer starred in "The Monkey's Uncle", she sang the title tune with The Beach Boys	Annette Funicello.

She talks about Soon-Yi & former flame Woody Allen in her 1997 memoir "What Falls Away"	Mia Farrow.

He said to his captain, "Before I let your steam drill beat me, I'd die with this hammer in my hand"	John Henry.

It's a song of praise, like "Rock Of Ages"	Hymn.

It's the only Maryland city not located within a county	Baltimore.

DDE	Dwight David Eisenhower.

Robert Guillaume provided the voice of Rafiki, the wise old baboon, in this 1994 film	The Lion King.

"In Her Sister's Shadow" is a biography of Lee Radziwill, sister of this woman	Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.

Up to a few years ago it was the emblem of the Soviet Union	Hammer & sickle.

Take off the top, or milk from which the cream has been removed	Skim.

Principal routes through this capital include Ala Moana Boulevard & Pali Highway	Honolulu.

RWR	Ronald Wilson Reagan.

This Rene Russo film about an eccentric & her pets is based on a true story; it features the following:	Buddy.

Isak Dinesen reflected on her years in Kenya in this book, later the title of a film about her	Out Of Africa.

Goods being sold "under the hammer" are found at these events	Auctions.

It's the edge of a hat, or the topmost edge of a cup or bowl	Brim.

This Arizona city's name comes from Chuk Son, Papago for "Spring at the foot of a black mountain"	Tucson.

HCH	Herbert Clark Hoover.

It's the island where Fay Wray first encountered King Kong; to think of its name, use your "head"	Skull Island.

Despite its title, "The Autobiography of Alice B.

Toklas" is a book by & about this woman	Gertrude Stein.

A 1st century B.C.

maxim of Publilius Syrus says it's when you should hammer your iron	When it's hot.

An arm or leg	Limb.

This Rhode Island resort city is the site of the U.S.

Navy Undersea Warfare Center	Newport.

JKP	James Knox Polk.

1968 classic with the ad line "Somewhere in the universe, there must be something better than man!"	Planet of the Apes.

Extra! Extra!  Read all about this retired Washington Post publisher in "Personal History"	Katharine Graham.

Paul McCartney said this song "Epitomizes the downfalls in life"	Maxwell's Silver Hammer.

Gloomy & forbidding, like a certain "reaper"	Grim.

Danae gave birth to Perseus after Zeus visited her in the form of a shower of this precious metal	Gold.

Andrea del Sarto's 1527 version of this Biblical banquet is similar to that of Leonardo, a man he admired	The Last Supper.

The times they were a-changin' when this folk icon went electric at the 1965 Newport Festival	Bob Dylan.

Leap day date	Feb-29.

Code of behavior for a knight to remember	Chivalry.

Ask a Dutchman "Spreekt U Engels?", which means this, & he'll probably say, "Yes"	Do you speak English?.

In Australian myth, Ngunung-Ngunnut, one of these flying mammals, created the first woman	Bat.

Gentile da Fabriano used the international Gothic style for his painting "The Adoration Of" this trio	The Magi.

In his hard youth, this Oklahoman who fathered Arlo & the Folk Revival had a job washing spittoons	Woody Guthrie.

In 1954 Armistice Day was renamed this	Veterans Day.

This adjective, a synonym for "wandering", describes the type of knight satirized by Cervantes	Knight-errant.

This relative is "de oom", whether or not he's a "Dutch" one	Uncle.

Daphnis, who invented pastoral poetry, was the son of this Greek messenger god & a Sicilian nymph	Hermes.

For her 1997 calendar, singer Gloria Trevi recreated this artist's "Birth Of Venus" with herself as Venus	Sandro Botticelli.

Her famed soprano is heard here in a '60s recording:	Judy Collins.

In the U.S.

the Jewish festivals of Hanukkah & Passover each last this many days	8.

A young boy between 7 & 14 who trained as a knight, or his hairdo	Page.

The dairy is "de melwinkel" while "de kaaswinkel" specializes in this kind of dairy product	Cheese.

This Norse god known for his great strength was a protector of peasants & farmers	Thor.

"Pumpkin Head" is a 1420s sculpture of a bald man by Donato di Niccolo, better known as this	Donatello.

Peggy, sister of this co-founder of The Weavers, wrote the feminist anthem "Gonna Be An Engineer"	Pete Seeger.

Many European countries celebrate the equivalent of this American holiday on May Day	Labor Day.

Women given the rank corresponding to knighthood are called this	Dames.

Driving through the Netherlands?  You should know a sign that says "Parkeerverbod" means this	No Parking.

These fiendish feathered females swooped down over Phineus & befouled his food	Harpies.

In 1533 this Venetian was made court painter by Emperor Charles V, who also ennobled him	Titian.

Born Michelle Johnston, she "stunned" the industry in 1994 by selling her new album only at her shows	Michelle Shocked.

The British have a real blast on this day, November 5	Guy Fawkes Day.

In the 12th C.

these French minstrels began composing songs about knights called chansons de geste	Troubadours.

It's a cinch you know the Dutch call this fashion accessory "een ceintuur"	Belt.

Formulated in 1953, its first purpose was "water displacement" to prevent corrosion on missiles	WD-40.

1965's "The Outlaws Is Coming" was the last movie featuring this wacky trio of comedy misfits	The Three Stooges.

Gutzon Borglum died in 1941 so his son, Lincoln, finished sculpting the 4 figures of this memorial	Mount Rushmore.

Nitrides of boron & silicon are  used to make crucibles because they are stable when this is high	temperature.

Bubonic plague's more descriptive name	the Black Death.

Sick of selling dry goods from a buggy, in 1872 Montgomery Ward issued a one-page one of these	a catalog.

Arthur Miller's marriage to her was mirrored in his play "After the Fall"	Marilyn Monroe.

In 1953 this big-screen misfit duo met Dr.

Jekyll & Mr.

Hyde; in 1955 they met the mummy	Abbott & Costello.

Kidnappers got under this crooner's skin when they kidnapped his son from a Tahoe casino in 1963	Frank Sinatra.

Crucibles are sometimes made out of this ceramic material made by firing pure clay	porcelain.

The 7 words that complete the speech Patrick Henry gave on March 23, 1775	"Give me liberty or give me death".

In the '80s this city's Old Vic Theater was refurbished by salesman "Honest Ed" Mirvish	London.

Miller's play "A View from the Bridge" concerns a view from this New York bridge	the Brooklyn Bridge.

Born Joseph Levitch, he's been a nutty professor & an errand boy	Jerry Lewis.

Nickname of the "son" who terrorized NYC in the summer of '77	Son of Sam.

This element, Pt, is used in crucibles & tongs because of its inertness & high fusing point	platinum.

Napoleon's is seen here	a death mask.

This direct-selling co.

known for products like Nutrilite claims 3 million independent business owners	Amway.

In June 1999 Arthur Miller received a lifetime achievement one of these awards at Radio City Music Hall	a Tony Award.

When these misfit brothers were "at the circus" in a 1939 film, "Lydia the tattooed lady" was there, too	The Marx Brothers.

Egypt is sometimes called the land of this fertile son of Noah	Ham.

Brass usually comes out of a crucible in this 5-letter form, more familiarly used with gold	an ingot.

Suge Knight & Tupac Shakur's rap music record label	Death Row Records.

When dealing with a car salesman, know that the MSRP, short for this, doesn't include taxes & registration	manufacturer's suggested retail price.

Arthur Miller wrote the screenplay for the 1961 film "The Misfits", this male superstar's last film	Clark Gable.

He's the bawdy British TV misfit & comic genius seen here	Benny Hill.

This man whose surname means "hammer" counted Carloman & Pepin the Short as sons	Charles Martel.

A vertical crucible called a "skull" is used to make the gem called "cubic" this	zirconium.

It's the title of the famous 1793 work seen here	The Death of Jean-Paul Marat.

This 1992 presidential candidate sold IBM computers in Texas before starting his own company, EDS	Ross Perot.

Miller's play "Death of a Salesman" was his tragic tale of this title character	Willy Loman.

Brought to the U.S.

in the 1930s, this movement's name is German for "pattern" or "shape"	gestalt.

Get some McLovin from this 2007 comedy that Seth Rogen & Evan Goldberg began writing as 13-year-olds	Superbad.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Steinway & Sons in New York.) Today's keys are made of spruce, but the black keys & the whole body undergo staining to make them look like this traditional material	ebony.

Galaga is an arcade game; Gallagher smashes this fruit, Citrullus lanatus, with the Sledge-O-Matic	watermelon.

This nation has been ruled by the Grimaldi royal family since the 14th century	Monaco.

"Like it or" do this, meaning take or endure it	lump it.

Noted behavioral psychologist in the photo seen here	(Ivan) Pavlov.

Mais oui! In 2007 Chris Tucker & Jackie Chan headed to Paris, giving this film series trilogy status	Rush Hour.

(Jon of the Clue Crew reports from Steinway and Sons.) It's the ten-letter term for the piano's diaphragm; it's made flexible enough to vibrate, but strong enough to handle a thousand pounds of force from over 200 strings	soundboard.

Theodore Dreiser wrote "An American Tragedy"; Philip Roth, "The Great American" this	Novel.

This former Yugoslavian republic broke away from Serbia in 2006	Montenegro.

"And when two lovers woo they still say 'I love you' on that you can" do this	rely.

It took 8 years for this 1899 Freud work to sell the initial 600 copies printed, earning him about $250 in royalties	The Interpretation of Dreams.

(Hey, I'm Mark McGrath.) My band & I sang the song "Words To Me" in this 2002 movie about a hungry hyphenated Hanna-Barbera hound	Scooby-Doo.

(Sarah delivers the clue from Steinway & Sons' showroom.) Steinway models include a baby grand, a parlor grand, & this one, just in case you're Alfred Brendel	concert grand.

If you're vulpine, you're like a fox; if you're lying on your back with your face upward, you're in this position	supine.

The largest country in area that ends in "O", it has a population of about 66 million	the Congo.

To stop a leak or publicize a product	plug.

Known for his "box", he wrote "Walden Two", a 1948 fiction work about operant conditioning	B.F.

Skinner.

Kevin Costner's funeral kicks off this "big" 1983 film but sadly, Kevin couldn't make it; he got cut from the film in editing	The Big Chill.

(Sarah delivers the clue from Steinway & Sons' workshop.) These stop the string from vibrating once the key is raised--each is carefully matched to a string	dampers.

Tarantino is a director; this is a rapid, whirling dance named for an Italian city	tarantella.

Open an atlas & discover that the Atlas Mountains traverse the length of this country	Morocco.

It's said that "Horses sweat, men perspire, women" do this	glow.

In 1935 he founded the Swiss Society for Practical Psychology & became its president	Carl Jung.

Heard here, the "Wilhelm Scream" debuted in a 1951 film but has been used in over 120 others, notably in this 1977 sci fi pic	Star Wars.

(Sarah reports from Steinway's showroom.) This Polish pianist helped boost Steinway's reputation with tours of America in the 1890s, on one of which he played 107 concerts in 117 days	Ignace Jan Paderewski.

The Coriolis effect is caused by the Earth's rotation; this is a Shakespeare play about Caius Marcius	Coriolanus.

This small country is about 1/20th the size of NYC & its primary language is Italian	San Marino.

It means "to strongly encourage", & all its letters are found in the word encourage	urge.

Sherwood Anderson told him, write about what "you know...

that little patch...

in Mississippi where you started from"	William Faulkner.

Cervantes: "At a village of La Mancha, whose name I do not wish to remember"	Don Quixote.

Carson Palmer, Reggie Bush & Matt Leinart are a few of this school's recent winners	the University of Southern California.

The Pitt Fall is a scary free fall ride at Kennywood, near this second-largest Pennsylvania city	Pittsburgh.

The Greek hero Bellerophon was crippled when he fell off this winged steed	Pegasus.

No.

242 on the list, this insurance co.'s $99.3 billion loss made it Fortune's biggest loser ever	AIG.

A pile of pancakes	stack.

Verne: "Certainly an Englishman, it was more doubtful whether Phileas Fogg was a Londoner"	Around the World in Eighty Days.

Even though his team won the BCS Championship in 2009, this QB didn't win back-to-back Heismans	Tim Tebow.

No tame little swing ride, the Starflyer in this Austrian city swings you as high as a 23-story building	Vienna.

A horse named Comanche survived this man's June 1876 "Last Stand"	Custer.

Since the Fortune 500 list began in 1955, only Exxon, Wal-Mart & this now-troubled auto co.

have held the top spot	GM (General Motors).

A somewhat shapeless dress	a sack.

Melville: "Captain Vere was an exceptional character"	Billy Budd.

Sam Bradford, the most recent winner of the Heisman, attended a university in this conference	the Big 12.

Six Flags Great America unleashed a roller coaster named for this bat-tastic 2008 blockbuster	The Dark Knight.

The Lone Ranger rode Silver & this companion of his rode a horse named Scout	Tonto.

Fortune's "Most Likely to Succeed" was this Internet search site at No.

119 with 35 different "buy" ratings	Google.

A knave who's a real card	a jack.

Jack London: "'The Ghost' was rolling slightly on a calm sea without a breath of wind"	The Sea Wolf.

In 2006 Troy Smith joined Eddie George & back-to-back winner Archie Griffin as winners from this school	Ohio State.

I may not know "Who Framed" this movie bunny, but I can ride his Car Toon Spin at Disneyland	Roger Rabbit.

In "The Lord of the Rings", Gandalf rides this horse that only he could tame	Shadowfax.

With 14,000 videos, the most watched Fortune 500 CEO on YouTube was this bespectacled chairman of the No.

35 company	Bill Gates.

The cry of a canvasback	quack.

O.

Henry: "Tomorrow would be Christmas Day, and she had only $1.87 with which to buy Jim a present"	"The Gift of the Magi".

An award given for the best running back in college football is named for this 1948 Heisman winner from SMU	Doak Walker.

Atlantis on this "heavenly" island in the Bahamas has a Lazy River Ride & a Mayan Temple Water Slide	Paradise Island.

Alexander the Great conquered much of the known world riding this stallion	Bucephalus.

At No.

9, this printer-heavy co.

from Palo Alto had the biggest payroll bump after acquiring 149,000 EDS workers	HP.

It's a titan in the trucking industry	Mack.

Geronimo married the daughter of Cochise, a great one of these, but was never one himself as he was thought too impulsive	a chief.

Taylor Lautner played Jacob Black in this 2008 vampire flick	Twilight.

Carl Sandburg wrote, "I am" this most abundant type of flora; "I cover all"	the grass.

In the 1300s Italy gave birth to this art movement that would eventually sweep across Europe	the Renaissance.

It's the simplest fractional form of .75	4-Mar.

...this word on a sign meaning there's still room at the inn	vacancy.

Wyatt Earp was part of this sheriff-organized group sent out after Geronimo; it never caught sight of him	a posse.

"Gossip Girl" Taylor Momsen was Cindy Lou Who in this holiday film	How the Grinch Stole Christmas.

If someone insists your spruce is really a fir, show him that these pointy items are square, not flat	needles.

Seen in the painting here, this Dutch artist loved the color yellow	van Gogh.

MMIX in Roman numerals gives us this year	2009.

...this third-largest city of Spain, famous for its oranges	Valencia.

Late in life, Geronimo got co-opted by the white power structure, even riding in this president's 1905 inaugural parade	Teddy Roosevelt.

Taylor Kitsch is Gambit in this 2009 X-Men flick	Wolverine.

Club, reindeer & Spanish are called this but botanically are not true this	moss.

This artist used trowels, sticks & even basters to create some of his drip paintings, like "Cathedral"	Jackson Pollock.

.001 grams is equal to one of these	a milligram.

...this pasta, thinner than spaghetti, whose name is Italian for "little worms"	vermicelli.

Geronimo was born in the 1820s to the Bedonkohe, the smallest band among the Chiricahua branch of this tribe	Apache.

This season 5 winner of "American Idol" is from Alabama	Taylor Hicks.

It's the large floating leaf of a water lily	pad.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows a landscape on the monitor.)  To show distance, the artist creates a place on the horizon where two parallel lines seem to converge, referred to by this 2-word term	the vanishing point.

Multiply your liters by 1.0567 to get your amount of these units	a quart.

...this, like Paricutin in Mexico	volcano.

Geronimo was inspired by the Dreamer, one of these visionary healers or shamans, who was killed in 1881	a medicine man.

In a 2008 film he played Drillbit Taylor	Owen Wilson.

The spiny shrub ocotillo takes these as its habitat & is common in the Sonoran & Chihuahuan ones	a desert.

In 1865 he shocked Paris with "Olympia", his painting of a reclining nude	douard Manet.

You do the math: -40 degrees on the Fahrenheit temperature scale equals this on the Celsius scale	-40.

...this everyday form of Latin spoken by the Romans; sounds crude but it wasn't	Vulgar.

An 1881 resolution established that this state's name was to be spelled one way but pronounced another	Arkansas.

Cape Prince of Wales on the Seward Peninsula is this state's westernmost mainland point	Alaska.

When keeping score in this sport, "forget" to add your opponent's next pin score to his spare	Bowling.

Mass production of these in the U.S.

can be traced back to Donald F.

Duncan in the 1920s	Yo-yos.

Shortly after taking power, he nationalized millions of dollars of American-owned property in Cuba	Fidel Castro.

From the Old Germanic for "legs", it's Dr.

McCoy's nickname	"Bones".

Nasty or stingy; or the average	Mean.

Among its nicknames are "The Prairie State" & "The Land of Lincoln"	Illinois.

If you're playing midfield in this sport & the center is dribbling the ball towards you, kick at his shins	Soccer.

Joseph McVicker invented this after seeing the trouble kids had with modeling clay	Play-Doh.

On December 1, 1959, 12 nations signed a treaty setting aside this continent as a preserve for scientific research	Antarctica.

Just one Boston baked veggie	Bean.

In 1845, after nearly 10 years of independence, it became the 28th state	Texas.

Get a leg up in this sport by stepping on your opponent's ball in the fairway	Golf.

In 1930 General Mills introduced this mix to make biscuits quickly	Bisquick.

In 1917 he called for a declaration of war against Germany saying that "The world must be made safe for democracy"	Woodrow Wilson.

Jack Sprat's wife couldn't eat any	Lean.

The atomic age began with a blast on July 16, 1945 in this state	New Mexico.

If your opponent asks for the "3s" you really do have in your hand, tell him this, the name of the game	Go fish.

This cereal's name used to end in "oats" & its "I" is dotted with a piece of the product	Cheerios.

In January 1926 in London, John L.

Baird demonstrated this new invention which used a cathode ray tube	Television.

Suave Ricardo Montalban played this sultry superhuman on the TV series & on the big screen	Khan.

"Lois & Clark" actor Cain	Dean.

2 of the 4 states officially called commonwealths	Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia.

If you're cornered in Kamchatka, end this board game by bumping your opponent's armies off the board	Risk.

This VCR brand's name came from the Latin for "great voice"	Magnavox.

In 1992 this former Panamanian dictator was found guilty of drug trafficking by a Miami jury	Manuel Noriega.

Captain Kirk shares this name, his middle name, with a first century Roman emperor	Tiberius.

Noor, to her Jordanian subjects	Queen.

This method of preserving food by killing bacteria was developed by a French chemist in the 1860s	Pasteurization.

This Dallas bowl game has been played at the same site consecutively longer than any other major bowl game	Cotton Bowl.

In the 1870s this teenage outlaw was sometimes referred to as Kid Antrim	Billy the Kid.

Choreographer Frederick Ashton played one of the ugly stepsisters when this ballet debuted in 1948	Cinderella.

"Voyage of the Beagle"	Charles Darwin.

A diver bends in midair to touch the toes before entering the water in this dive	Jackknife.

In 1906 she succeeded her husband as professor of physics at the Sorbonne	Marie Curie.

In the 1999 Fiesta Bowl, quarterback Tee Martin led this school to the national title by defeating Florida State, 23-16	Tennessee.

She was a teenager when she married Ferdinand in 1469	Isabella.

Though a tenor now, Placido Domingo began singing in this vocal range below tenor	Baritone.

"This Side of Paradise"	F.

Scott Fitzgerald.

Blushing crow for crushing blow, for example	Spoonerism.

The "master plan of all life", it consists of thymine, adenine, guanine, cytosine, phosphate & deoxyribose	DNA  (deoxyribonucleic acid).

This Utah school's Ty Detmer holds the NCAA career record for yards passing with 15,031	Brigham Young University.

In his teens in the 1860s this "bright light" of inventors worked as a roving telegraph operator	Thomas Edison.

This composer of "The Nutcracker" said, "The music of a ballet is not invariably bad"	Tchaikovsky.

"The Mayor of Casterbridge"	Thomas Hardy.

It's a truck with a pronged platform at the front that raises & moves loads	Forklift.

Of the noble gases, it's first, alphabetically, was the first discovered & is the most abundant in air	Argon.

"At 15 I set my heart on learning", wrote this great Asian sage in his "Analects"	Confucius.

A governess fears that her charges are communicating with ghosts in an opera based on this Henry James novella	The Turn of the Screw.

"The Day of the Locust"	Nathanael West.

In the 1998 movie "Pleasantville", she played a '90s teen transported into a 1950s sitcom	Reese Witherspoon.

This tiny planet's thin atmosphere is mostly composed of helium & sodium thought to come from the solar wind	Mercury.

As a teenaer this "Great" guy ruled Russia jointly with his sickly half-brother Ivan	Peter the Great.

The ballet "Les Sylphides" is danced to music by this Polish-French composer	Frederic Chopin.

"Northanger Abbey"	Jane Austen.

Its nest is a platform of sticks in a low bush or tree	Spoonbill.

In 1998, the highest-ranking person in the line of presidential succession who could not legally be president	Madeleine Albright (Secretary of State).

On December 26, 1799 Washington was eulogized in Congress by this man known as "Lighthorse Harry"	Harry Lee.

"Imagine"	John Lennon.

This son of a Jewish mother & a Greek father is also called Timotheus	Timothy.

En Garde!  Women have competed in this Olympic sport since 1924	Fencing.

Malta's currency shares its name with this monetary unit of Italy	Lira.

Color of your face when you've done something irredeemable	Red (irREDeemable).

On May 28, 1754, Washington & his men fired the first shots of this 9-year war near Fort Duquesne	The French & Indian War.

"Forever Your Girl"	Paula Abdul.

In a letter to Corinth, Paul ranked this quality over faith & hope	Charity.

U.S.

soccer star Mia Hamm led her team to Olympic gold despite straining this the same day Kerri Strug did	Ankle.

In 1946 the Communist government of Vietnam began issuing coins with a depiction of this man	Ho Chi Minh.

Carry something luminescent when you go down into one of these	Mine (luMINEscent).

On December 23,1776 Washington wrote that "Our attempt on" this city was fixed for "Christmas Day or night"	Trenton.

"Hell Freezes Over"	The Eagles.

In Gethsemane, this apostle drew a sword & cut off Malchus' ear	Peter.

Of fire-eating, live pigeon-shooting or water buffalo polo, the one that was a 1900 Olympic event	Live pigeon-shooting.

The name of this currency is from the Sanskrit for "coined silver"	Rupee.

A 1,496-pound one was unfortunate enough to get caught in 1979	Tuna (unforTUNAte).

In July 1749, at age 17 George was appointed to this position for the county of Culpeper, Virginia	Surveyor.

"Glass Houses"	Billy Joel.

This apostle, the brother of James, is traditionally credited with writing a gospel	John.

The name of this equestrian event is French for "training"; it doesn't refer to a garment	Dressage.

A Philippine one-peso coin of 1947 depicted this American, calling him "Defender and Liberator"	Douglas MacArthur.

This capital city could be the climax of your world tour	Lima (cLIMAx).

Washington warned against "The insidious wiles of foreign influences" in this published declaration	His Farewell Address.

"Bat Out Of Hell II:  Back Into Hell"	Meat Loaf.

In Revelation, it was the name of he who sat on a pale horse	Death.

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE): "(Hi, I'm Mark McEwen)  I reported on the '92 W.

Olympics in Albertville, France & the '94 W.

Olympics hosted by this Scandinavian city"	Lillehammer, Norway.

Its currency, the guarani, shares its name with one of its national languages & an expensive Asuncion hotel	Paraguay.

Type of literature often produced by oversensitive youths	Verse (oVERSEnsitive).

This book begins, "When I wrote the following pages...I lived alone in the woods, a mile from any neighbor..."	Walden/ Life In The Woods.

The first wife of Henry VIII to get the axe	Anne Boleyn.

Once known as Burma, its official language Burmese was also renamed	Myanmar.

Snake Eyes	2.

Royal rapper seen on TV's "Living Single" & in the movie "Living Out Loud"	Queen Latifah.

At the United Nations:  WHO	World Health Organization.

Thoreau praised this man's actions at Harpers Ferry & eulogized him in 3 lectures	John Brown.

1980's "Death Of  A Princess" dramatized the execution of a princess from this country & her lover's beheading	Saudi Arabia.

A map of this country bears many Kualas;  Kuala Dungun, Kuala Lumpur....	Malaysia.

Boxcars, or Hobo's Delight on a Rainy Night	Sixes.

Though her name means "wolf", this basketball star was another canine in college -- a U.

Conn.

Husky	Rebecca Lobo.

For feminists:  NOW	National Organization for Women.

A dedicated abolitionist, Thoreau was a "conductor" on this	The Underground Railroad.

After Charles II was restored to England's throne, he had this lord protector's body dug up & beheaded	Oliver Cromwell.

Railways link this country's capital of Ulaanbaatar to Moscow & Peking	Mongolia.

Acey-Deucy	1 & 2.

She occupies the California congressional seat once held by her late entertainer husband	Mary Bono.

In San Francisco:  BART	Bay Area Rapid Transit.

Work that says, "Under a gov't which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison"	Civil Disobedience.

This principal leader of the Reign of Terror faced the guillotine himself on July 28, 1794	Robespierre.

The Baath party rules these 2 Mideast countries	Iraq & Syria.

Ada from Decatur, or Square Pair	Pair of 4's.

Born in Monaco in 1965, she's 7 & 8 years younger than her siblings Caroline & Albert	Princess Stephanie.

To Neil Armstrong:  NASA	National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

While in New York in the 1840s, Thoreau met this newspaper editor, who then acted as his literary agent	Horace Greeley.

The last wife of Henry VIII to get the axe	Catherine Howard.

The Druk Gyalpo, or Dragon King, rules this neighbor of India that has a dragon on its flag	Bhutan.

Texas Sunflowers	Two 5's.

In "Jerry Maguire", this actress told Tom Cruise, "You had me at hello"	Renee Zellweger.

For cybergeeks:  MS-DOS	Microsoft - Disk Operating System.

In May 1998 this metropolis of 7 million voted to start electing its mayor for the first time	London.

This Iraqi president attended Cairo Law School in 1962 & 1963 while in exile	Saddam Hussein.

It's where Washington was in war, in peace & in the hearts of his countrymen	First.

In 1996 Larry Hagman, Patrick Duffy & other actors from this series reunited for a TV movie	"Dallas".

Nearly 90% of all malaria cases occur on this continent	Africa.

This state with the most people is home to the largest living tree	California.

This sound can be emitted by an auto horn or by a wild goose	Honk.

During the Gulf War, foreign journalists used this city's Al-Rashid Hotel as their base of operations	Baghdad.

"Nervous Breakdown" the Rolling Stones suffered in the '60s	Nineteenth.

On a 1995 episode of this sitcom, JFK Jr.

dropped by the offices of "FYI"	"Murphy Brown".

Scientists have reported that this tofu legume may lower cholesterol	Soybean.

With about 1,040 people per square mile of land, life in this most densely populated state is a real garden party	New Jersey.

From the Latin for "kitchen", you literally cook ceramics in one of these	Kiln.

The ancient Greeks gave the area between the Tigris & Euphrates this name, which means "between rivers"	Mesopotamia.

Shakespeare's "night" to remember	Twelfth.

Carol Burnett & Carroll O'Connor have appeared as Jamie's parents on this sitcom	"Mad About You".

This clouding of the eye's lens is common in people over the age of 65	Cataracts.

This "Beef State" is No.

1 in commercial red meat & great northern beans	Nebraska.

During the American Revolution, this term referred to an American who favored the British side	Tory.

Living mostly "whey" up north, they are Iraq's largest ethnic minority	Kurds.

(AUDIO DAILY DOUBLE): Street in the title of the following: (audio clue - instrumental)	"42nd Street".

This British comedy troupe's "Flying Circus" landed on American TV in 1974	Monty Python.

Outbreaks of this form of food poisoning are often the result of improper home canning	Botulism.

The nation's highest flat-top mountain, Grand Mesa, is in this state	Colorado.

"Be not deceived; God is not mocked:  for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also" this	Reap.

The name of this Iraqi currency is derived from a Latin word for "ten"	Dinar.

In "The Music Man", the penultimate trombonist in "The Big Parade"	75th.

"Dragnet"'s Jack Webb also developed this police series starring Martin Milner & Kent McCord	"Adam-12".

The cause of this disorder characterized by sudden sleep attacks is unknown	Narcolepsy.

The deepest gorge in the U.S.

is this state's Hells Canyon	Idaho (Mainly in Idaho on the border with Oregon).

To incline, or to thrust a lance, perhaps at a windmill	Tilt.

On October 4 Russia launched this first satellite into space	Sputnik.

You'll find the largest one in Mexico, not Egypt; its base covers nearly 45 acres	Pyramid.

This type of shoe has a slot in the strap across each vamp into which a coin can be inserted	Pennyloafer.

Bill Clinton awarded this political rival the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1997	Bob Dole.

It's based on the memoir "Anna And The King Of Siam"	"The King And I".

Both England's King George V & FDR put their stamp of approval on this "King of Hobbies"	Philately (stamp collecting).

When Wham-O introduced this toy in 1957, it was called the Pluto Platter	Frisbee.

Longer than 2 football fields, it was launched at Friedrichshafen, Germany in 1936	The Hindenburg.

The lad who's the symbol of a line of Sherwin-Williams paints wears this type of shoes	Wooden Shoes/Clogs.

Indiana's current governor, Frank L.

O'Bannon, ran against Stephen Goldsmith, the mayor of this city	Indianapolis.

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE - here is a special guest with the clue): "Hello, I'm Marla Maples Trump.

In 1992 I made my Broadway debut in the musical about this humorist who never met a man he didn't like"	Will Rogers.

For many years Andre Previn conducted one	Philharmonic.

As the Teamsters' vice president, he was indicted for bribery, conspiracy & obstruction of justice	Jimmy Hoffa.

Growing over 20 feet, it's the largest predatory fish	Great White Shark.

These boots named for a British general became popular during the Napoleonic Wars	Wellingtons.

Now a Tennessee senator, he appeared in the films "Die Hard 2" & "The Hunt For Red October"	Fred Dalton Thompson.

In January 1997 Liza Minnelli returned to Broadway, filling in for Julie Andrews in this musical	Victor/Victoria.

You beta know that this letter follows upsilon in the Greek alphabet	Phi.

He ended his brief retirement to become chairman & president of Occidental Petroleum	Armand Hammer.

Greenland is more than 2 1/2 times the size of this next largest island	New Guinea.

Miranda, Spectator & D'Orsay are types of this slip-on women's shoe	Pump.

This champion stock-car racer lost the 1996 race for North Carolina's Secretary of State	Richard Petty.

The rock opera "Rent" is a reworking of this Puccini opera, set in modern times	"La Boheme".

This Olivia Newton-John recording spent 10 weeks at No.

1, the longest of any single in the 1980's	"Physical".

The first explorer to fly over both poles, he passed away in March	Admiral Richard Byrd.

With its supporting roots & trunks, a single one of these trees in India covers some 3 acres	Banyan.

This flat shoe normally has a cloth upper & a flexible rope sole	Espadrilles.

In November 1996 Rep.

Maxine Waters was elected chairwoman of this caucus	Congressional Black Caucus.

This Stephen Sondheim musical was based on the Ingmar Bergman film "Smiles Of A Summer Night"	"A Little Night Music".

The name of this Egyptian island is Greek for "Lighthouse"	Pharos.

The 1853 novel "Clotel, or The President's Daughter" alleges that this man had an affair with a slave	Thomas Jefferson.

Term for the minerals from which metals are extracted	ore.

He raises & tends the honey kind	beekeeper.

Sweets to the sweet: Farewell! were Hamlet's mother's words at this woman's funeral	Ophelia.

Nancy Ross, Angela Davis, & Geraldine Ferraro all sought this office in 1984	vice president (of the United States).

It's what gives soda pop the bubbles	carbon dioxide.

Single-letter chemical designation of a diamond	C.

On a sailor's chest it might say Mother; on Cher it's a butterfly	tattoo.

Higgins played the title role of this 1974 film	Benji.

Part of Cassius' anatomy Brutus calls itching when accusing him of greed	palm.

Joan Benoit was 1st to win this Olympic event, finally offered for women in 84	marathon.

Caleb Bradham named his elixir this because it was supposed to relieve dyspepsia	Pepsi Cola.

Largest block ever found of it in U.S., 56 tons, was used for Tomb of the Unknown Soldier	marble.

[Audio DD] 1984 film which featured the following: (opening to  Dancing in the Sheets by Shalamar)	Footloose.

Other women cloy the appetites they feed, but she makes hungry where most she satisfies	Cleopatra.

Kristine Holderied was 1st to graduate top in her class from 1 of these	service academy.

They spent $250,000 to develop a can so the shuttle crew could drink their new formula in space	Coke.

Mark Twain defined it as a hole in the groud with a liar standing at the top	mine.

Quality of ice, eels, & banana peels	slipperiness.

Susanna & the twins, Hamnet & Judith	Shakespeare's children.

Fenton & Fowler''s calls this elite Detroit ginger ale the best soft drink in the world	Vernor's.

Fizzing when acid is applied, this mineral is the base of the Portland cement industry	limestone.

A tenant under lease	lessee.

The lines And thereby hangs a tale & All the world's a stage come from this comedy	As You Like It.

It was originally called bib-label lithiated lemon-lime soda	7-UP.

Hell no, we won't go was a chant often heard at rallies against this war	Vietnam War.

Arboreal symbol of strength	oak.

The pair's lyricist	Hammerstein.

They've been guarding British royalty since 1485 & gin bottles since 1820	Beefeaters.

October holiday which Mexicans call Dia de la Raza is celebrated in the U.S.

as this	Columbus Day.

A patron saint of Russia, he was probably skinny & never wore a red suit	St.

Nicholas.

In the early 1930s Americans were told that it was just around the corner	prosperity.

Of the Tree of Life, Tree of Knowledge, or the Tree of Righteousness, the 1 forbidden to Adam	Knowledge.

The Times Brooks Atkinson called it an original & beautiful excursion into...

the Far East	The King and I.

Founder of the nursing profession, she was named after the city in which she was born	Florence Nightingale.

Meaning removal of meat, it's Rio's 4-day pre-Lenten festival	Carnival.

At 5th & 50th, its Lady Chapel is the place to get married, if you're in NYC - & Catholic	St.

Patrick's Cathedral.

He railed against the do-nothing 80th congress during his whistle-stop campaign	Truman.

The cry sap's a runnin refers to this tree	maple tree.

Their 1st professional collaboration was this 1943 landmark musical	Oklahoma!.

First Roman army to invade Britain was led by this general	Caesar.

O.

Henry called it the most  purely American holiday	Thanksgiving.

St.

Elsewhere is the nickname for this TV hospital	St.

Eligius.

Four more years of the full dinner pail symbolized this president's re-election campaign in 1900	McKinley.

Continent on which the densest, tallest & most valuable stand of timber is found	North America.

Character who is corny as Kansas in August	Nellie Forbush.

The penultimate Anglo-Saxon king, Edward was known by this pious title	Edward the Confessor.

Muslims fast during daylight hours for this entire month	Ramadan.

Chorea, as in choreographer, is a condition associated with rheumatic fever formerly called this	St.

Vitus (Dance).

In 1912, this pres.

candidate declared, We stand at Armageddon, & we battle for the Lord	Teddy Roosevelt.

Hindu for trader this unusual tree whose branches grow down can look like a mini-forest	Banyan.

Stuart Damon & Lesley Ann Warren starred in this only R & H musical written for TV	Cinderella.

Though it sounds like a grim volume, it's just William the Conqueror's survey of the British kingdom	The Domesday Book.

Until 1752, the 13 colonies observed Annunciation Day, the 25th of this month, as new year's	March.

Of the 4, blood group of the universal recipient	AB.

At 16 in 1785, this future first consul became head of his family & graduated from the Paris Military Academy	Napoleon Bonaparte.

Kelly Garrett, Jill Munroe & Sabrina Duncan all went undercover for this mysterious boss	Charlie Townsend.

This sea stretches from Beirut to Gibraltar	Mediterranean Sea.

This "sweet" boxer had fought just once in 5 years when he decisioned Marvin Hagler in 1987	"Sugar" Ray Leonard.

It can be an early harmonious period for a president, or a married couple can take a "second" one without the kids	Honeymoon.

After December 1944, it was Ike's rank	Five-star general.

Around 1347 B.C.

at the age of 9, his rule as pharaoh began	King Tut.

Miss Jane Hathaway reluctantly schemed with this miserly banker	Milburn Drysdale.

One of the traditional 7 seas, it shares its name with a Rodgers & Hammerstein musical	South Pacific.

This pulp author was past 50 when he wrote his first novel, "The Big Sleep"	Raymond Chandler.

Parents of infants must learn to deal with these, from the medieval Greek "diaspros", or "pure white"	Diapers.

Whether it happens in the afternoon or not, it's facial stubble	Five o'clock shadow.

In 1923 the San Francisco Symphony hosted the debut of this 7-year-old American violin prodigy	Yehudi Menuhin.

Tattoo labored for this man on "Fantasy Island"	Mr.

Roarke.

Moses "Stretched his hand over" it & it was sundered	Red Sea.

"X-Ray" is the 1994 "Unauthorized Biography" of this leader of the Kinks	Ray Davies.

Babies are in this "mouthy" stage according to psychoanalytic theory	Oral stage.

This type of "discount" is slang for shoplifting	Five-finger discount.

Of 6, 10 or 14, the age of Michael Kearney in 1994 when he became the USA's youngest college graduate	10.

On "Bewitched" Darrin Stephens worked his advertising magic for this partner of McMann	Larry Tate.

WWI's important naval Battle of Jutland took place in this sea	North Sea.

"Write if you get work" was Ray Goulding's catchphrase as half of this duo	Bob and Ray.

Make sure all your children are immunized against this "barnyard" disease caused by Varicella-Zoster	Chickenpox.

Vice President Thomas Marshall said, "What this country needs is a good" one of these	Five-cent cigar.

The last male in the Tudor line, he became king at age 9 upon the death of Henry VIII	Edward VI.

Every week Danno Williams would "Book 'Em" for this boss	Steve McGarrett (played by Jack Lord).

Despite this name, it's really the world's largest lake	Caspian Sea.

25 years after "The Lost Weekend", he played Ryan O'Neal's dad in "Love Story"	Ray Milland.

Stalin launched the first of these in 1928	Five Year Plan.

On November 23, 1880 this "Sunflower State" became the first to prohibit in its constitution the sale of liquor	Kansas.

It's the title nickname of the psychopath Al Pacino played in a 1983 film	Scarface.

Snell's Law governs the angle of refraction of this as it passes from one medium to another	Light.

In 1957 child model Jim O'Neill was chosen to grace the cover of his "Baby and Child Care Book"	Dr.

Benjamin Spock.

William Wells Brown's "Clotel; or, The President's Daughter" is about the kids this man allegedly had with a slave	Thomas Jefferson.

Michael J.'s containers	Fox's boxes.

Sidney Poitier starred in the 1961 film version of this Lorraine Hansberry drama about a black Chicago family	A Raisin in the Sun.

Kepler's first law says that planetary orbits aren't circular but have this shape	Elliptical.

At the Oscars in 1992, Billy Crystal said this "City Slickers" co-star was backstage on the Stairmaster	Jack Palance.

He wrote "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky", "The Blue Hotel" & "The Red Badge of Courage"	Stephen Crane.

Cybill's large cats	Shepherd's leopards.

In early 1880 Wabash in this state became the first city to illuminate its streets by electricity	Indiana.

As Chris, a middle-class kid, this actor saw war close up in the 1986 film "Platoon"	Charlie Sheen.

Gresham's Law, named for a 16th century financier, is usually stated as "Bad" this "drives out good"	Money.

Beechwood & juniper branches are used to smoke Germany's Westphalian type of this meat	Ham.

Edward Bellamy's 1888 book "Looking Backward" sends a man to this year & doesn't mention computer bugs	2000.

Nolte's films	Nick's flicks.

During 1879 he perfected his photographic dry plate	George Eastman.

An action star from the '30s to the '70s, this actor headlined "The Fighting Seabees" & "Flying Tigers"	John Wayne.

The Law of Independent Assortment is one of the laws of heredity named for this 19th C.

Austrian monk	Gregor Mendel.

The most effective way of treating pernicious anemia is through injections of this vitamin	B12.

Ydgrun is a goddess worshipped by residents of this Samuel Butler country	Erewhon.

Torn's witticisms	Rip's quips.

10 members of this secret society of Irish immigrant coal workers were hanged on June 21, 1877	The Molly Maguires.

Stephen King not only wrote the script for this 1986 film about possessed machinery, he directed it	Maximum Overdrive.

Objects with this property, meaning they can be deformed & regain their shapes, are covered by Hooke's Law	Elasticity.

This fourth state of matter can be made by heating a gas or applying an electric field to it	Plasma.

Oscar Wilde wrote "The Picture of Dorian Gray" & he wrote "The Portrait of A Lady"	Henry James.

Calista's collection of photos of actress June	Flockhart's Lockharts.

San Francisco, California is a sister city to this one in Italy	Assisi (named after St.

Francis of Assisi).

In 1978 their duet "You're The One That I Want" replaced another duet by Johnny Mathis & Deniece Williams at No.

1	Olivia Newton-John & John Travolta.

A popular brand of orange juice	Tropicana.

Abe gained the respect of local ruffians when he held his own against one of the Clary's Grove boys in this sport	wrestling.

This warehouse club has over 43 million members, some of them Gold Star, lugging home the big jars of mayo	Costco.

We don't see what was so good about this 2-word term for the worldwide 1930s economic disaster	the Great Depression.

Her "Control" album produced 5 Top 5 singles, each in a different spot; "When I Think Of You" hit No.

1	Janet Jackson.

A 3.5-million-square-mile land area between the Atlantic Ocean & the Red Sea	the Sahara.

Among the books read by Lincoln as a youngster were "Robinson Crusoe", "Aesop's Fables", & Mason Weems' "Life of" this man	Washington.

This co.

agreed in 1993 to lease the New Amsterdam Theatre, & the old Times Square of degradation & filth was history	Disney.

Both pleasant & painful, as in a memory	bittersweet.

"Refugees Row" this entire island "to Miami"	Cuba.

In 1977 this "sleepy" song became Fleetwood Mac's only No.

1 hit	"Dreams".

A weapon removed from a stone	Excalibur.

On October 5, 1818 this mother of Lincoln & 2 of her relatives died of milk sickness	Nancy Hanks.

This chain with a month as its name has acquired stores like Kaufmann's in Pittsburgh & Robinson's in L.A.	May Company (May's Department Store accepted).

Alliterative two-word term for action by one's own forces causing casualties to one's own troops	friendly fire.

Boston rejoices as this team "Lose(s) In 50th Straight Pennant Race; Fans Blame 'Curse of Jeter'"	the Yankees.

Madonna's "This Used To Be My Playground" was sung over the closing credits of this 1992 film	A League of Their Own.

Stevenson's rousing tale from 1881	Treasure Island.

While serving in the Illinois legislature, Abe switched to this party of his political idol Henry Clay	the Whigs.

Orange & Rockland Utilities is a subsidiary of this company named for an inventor	Consolidated Edison (ConEd).

2-word term for something supposedly confidential but actually known quite generally	an open secret.

This country "Bombed Back into the Renaissance"	Italy.

In 1991 this heartthrob took Percy Sledge's "When A Man Loves A Woman" back to the top spot	Michael Bolton.

A market town of Upper Egypt built on the ruins of Thebes	Luxor.

During his 80 days of military service in 1832, Abe attempted without success to track down this Sauk & Fox Indian chief	Black Hawk.

In 1959 Richard De Vos & Jay Van Andel founded this company that now has 3 million independent distributors	Amway.

This computer language gets oxymoronic when it follows "Advanced"	BASIC.

Jessica Tandy finds a farmer dead, his eyes gouged out, in this 1963 thriller	The Birds.

Chad's colonial overlord until independence in 1960	France.

It can mean to burn slightly, or to burn the ends of hair or cloth	singe.

This late author's representatives sued over "The Cat Not in the Hat", a rhyming account of the O.J.

Simpson trial	Dr.

Seuss.

As its name suggests, the tipp toe approach procedure at SFO is meant to minimize this	noise.

Hitchcock made this film in 1934 & then remade it in 1956 with Doris Day & Jimmy Stewart	The Man Who Knew Too Much.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows some animal tracks displayed on a monitor.)  Though its tail sometimes drags over its trail, this animal, Castor canadensis, can be identified by its webbed hind foot	the beaver.

In the 11th century the kings of Chad converted to this faith	Islam.

For more than 200 years, the annual Baltic Herring Market & Fair has been a big to-do in this world capital	Helsinki.

"Molvania: A Land Untouched by Modern Dentistry" is a satirical type of this guide	a travel guide.

Runways are numbered by compass degrees without the last digit, so this is the highest number used	36.

Cary Grant admires Grace Kelly's big diamonds in this 1955 caper	To Catch a Thief.

Refugees from the neighboring Darfur region of this country have fled into eastern Chad	the Sudan.

Carson Sink & the Great Salt Lake lie in the drainage area known as the Great this	Basin.

"The Ninety-Nine Guardsmen", one of Bret Harte's "condensed novels", parodies this French tale	The Three Musketeers.

You land, not anchor, at this Phoenix airport, named by a board member from Scenic Airways	Sky Harbor Airport.

Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman fall in love & ferret out Nazis in Brazil in this classic	Notorious.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew displays some animal tracks on a monitor.)  The overlapping track of this animal, also known as the bay lynx, is similar to that of the siamese but bigger & deeper	a bobcat.

It's the country directly north of Chad	Libya.

Of Welsh extraction, Frank Lloyd Wright named his homes & fellowship after this early Welsh poet	Taliesin.

Rafreaky the baboon & a 30-year-old Annie have appeared in this NYC theater spoof that debuted in 1982	Forbidden Broadway.

A beach on this half-Dutch island offers close-up views of planes landing at Princess Juliana Airport	St.

Maarten.

John Dall & Farley Granger strangle a college friend just for thrills in this, Hitch's first color film	Rope.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew shows some animal tracks on a monitor.)  Deer usually leave a simple, 2-toed track, but if they run in snow, you can see the imprint of these vestigial claws	the dewclaws.

The capital & largest city	N'Djamena.

As well as discovering a famous gap in Saturn's rings, he also discovered 4 of Saturn's moons	(Giovanni) Cassini.

"Go for Barocco" is a take-off of Balanchine by this hairy, all-male ballet troupe	the Trockadero de Monte Carlo.

The ILS, short for this, was first installed at Indianapolis in 1940	the Instrument Landing System.

Ironically, this 1953 science fiction book began appearing in a censored version in 1967	Fahrenheit 451.

These lovers do "with their death bury their parents' strife"	Romeo and Juliet.

One of its 1st presidents, John Witherspoon, was the only clergyman to sign this document	Declaration of Independence.

This Johnny Hart strip features such characters as Thor, Peter, Wiley & Clumsy Carp	B.C..

Unlike sherbet, sorbet never contains this dairy product	milk.

This Texas Democrat has represented his state in the U.S.

Senate since 1971	Lloyd Bentsen.

This bridge spanning NYC's East River was designated a national historic landmark in 1964	Brooklyn Bridge.

The play in which Emilia screams, "The moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murder! Murder!"	Othello.

Princeton was given its name in 1896, the year this future Princeton student & Jazz Age author was born	Scott Fitzgerald.

In 1941 a daughter named Cookie was born to this comic strip couple	Blondie and Dagwood.

Perfect for dipping in wine or coffee, biscotti are twice-baked cookies from this country	Italy.

In 1980 this "Evita" composer won a Tony for Best Score & a Grammy for Best Cast Show Album	(Andrew Lloyd) Webber.

This bridge in Venice connects the doge's palace with the old state prison	Bridge of Sighs.

In Act I, Scene 1 of this play, a ghost appears to Barnardo, Marcellus & Horatio	Hamlet.

Of 1769, 1869 or 1969, the year Princeton began to admit women as undergraduates	1969.

"The Flintsones" have a dinosaur named Dino; this strip has a dinosaur named Dinny	Alley Oop.

This thick liquid is the traditional sweetening in Indian pudding	molasses.

This British prime minister helped draft the Treaty of Versailles, which ended World War I	Lloyd George.

The 1st Roman bridge of which there is any record is the Pons Sublicius, built in 621 B.C.

over this river	Tiber.

In "The Merchant of Venice" he tells his friend Tubal, "Meet me at our synagogue"	Shylock.

In 1783 Princeton's Nassau Hall doubled as this for the nation	capital.

Jon is this cat's master; Odie is his dog friend	Garfield.

A rich custard topped with caramelized sugar, its name means "burnt cream" in French	crme brle.

In 1832 this editor founded the New England Anti-Slavery Society	William Lloyd Garrison.

The Francis Scott Key Bridge crosses the Patapsco River in this city	Baltimore.

In "King Lear", she poisons her sister Regan, then stabs herself	Goneril.

In 1974 this Princeton grad & PBS host wrote "How to Make Money in Wall Street"	Louis Rukeyser.

His Stars and Stripes cartoons featured the battle-weary GIs Willie & Joe	Bill Mauldin.

Chef Josef Dobos is famous for creating this type of cake named for him	(Dobos) torte.

In 1953 he orginated the role of Captain Queeg in "The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial" on Broadway	Lloyd Nolan.

This Colorado canyon has the world's highest suspension bridge  1,053' above the Arkansas River	Royal Gorge.

The carol notwithstanding, a king with this "good" name had St.

John of Nepomuk killed in 1393	Wenceslas.

This hefty ebullient tenor once taught elementary school in Modena, Italy, his birthplace	Luciano Pavarotti.

Ellen Glasgow, a native of this Virginia capital, set several novels there but called it "Queenborough"	Richmond.

In 1967 Richard Hatcher became the 1st elected black mayor of this steel-producing Indiana city	Gary.

This largest island in the world also contains the northernmost land in the world	Greenland.

Sublimation is the direct change from solid to gas without passing through this stage	liquid.

Name given to the split in the Catholic church when rival popes were elected in 1378	Great Schism.

This Spaniard starred in Franco Zeffirelli's film "La Traviata"	(Placido) Domingo.

Title character who says, "Why did you paint it?  It will mock me some day  mock me horribly!"	Doran Gray.

At over 30 years, this West Virginian is currently the longest-serving Democrat in the U.S.

Senate	(Robert) Byrd.

Lewis with Harris is the most northerly of this "Outer" Scottish island group	Outer Hebrides.

Plano-convex, biconvex & concavo-convex are 3 of the types of this optical component	lens.

Claiming the French throne, England's Edward III invaded the continent in 1337, setting off this war	100 Years War.

This Neapolitan tenor made his last public appearance on Christmas Eve, 1920 in "La Juive"	Caruso.

She wrote in "Emma", "One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other"	Jane Austen.

During his record 11 years as FDR's Sec'y of State, this Tennessean conceived the idea of the United Nations	(Cordell) Hull.

This Indonesian island became world famous after giant lizards were discovered there in 1912	Komodo.

This field is the study of the properties & production of sound	acoustics.

Chaucer wrote a treatise on how to build one of these & use it to compute the position of a star	astrolabe.

In 1971 this part-Maori diva had her first Covent Garden triumph in "The Marriage of Figaro"	Kiri Te Kanawa.

This "Madame Bovary" author visited Tunisia to research "Salammbo", his novel about Carthage	Flaubert.

In December 1985 Cognress passed this bill in an effort to end the federal deficit	Gramm-Rudman.

Singapore seceded from this country in 1965	Malaysia.

The farad, the unit of capacitance, is named for this scientist	Faraday.

In the 1350s this Moorish palace was completed in Granada, Spain	Alhambra.

Late, great Russian who wrote the autobiographic books "Pages from My Life" & "Man and Mask"	Chaliapin.

"Eugenie Grandet" is considered one of the finest novels in his series "La Comedie Humaine"	Balzac.

When he ran for president in 1884, the Democrats called him the "Continental Liar From the State of Maine"	James G.

Blaine.

The Court of Tynwald is the chief legislative body of this island in the Irish Sea	Isle of Man.

Deuterium is a heavy isotope of this element	hydrogen.

In 1978 she became the first black woman honored on a U.S.

postage stamp	Harriet Tubman.

Pato, a combination of basketball & this game played on horseback, is quite popular in Argentina	Polo.

The November 25, 1963 front page read, this man "Shot To Death In Jail Corridor By A Dallas Citizen"	Lee Harvey Oswald.

Tajikistan has the highest one of these in the world; the U.S.

doesn't even make the Top 10 with Hoover	Dam.

Marion Morrison	John Wayne.

In the 1996 book "The Presidents:  A Reference History"	Bill Clinton.

The French flag	Tricolor.

From the old French for "ice", these cover about 1/8 of Iceland; some are 3/4 of a mile thick	Glaciers.

The revelation of "Undreamed Of Splendors" was reported with the 1923 opening of his inner tomb	King Tut.

The longest trip by rail you can take underwater is between these 2 countries	England and France.

Raquel Tejada	Raquel Welch.

In "Asimov's Biographical Encyclopedia of Science & Technology" is this "Cosmos" astronomer	Carl Sagan.

The ironman category for this sport includes a 2.4 mile swim, a 112-mile bike race & a marathon run	Triathlon.

Jorge Icaza, who was born in Quito, was one of this country's most famous 20th century authors	Ecuador.

On Sept.

9, 1974 news fit to print included the pardon of this man & "Knievel Safe As Rocket Falls"	Richard Nixon.

Able to carry over 2 million barrels of crude a day, it runs from Prudhoe Bay to Valdez	the Alaska Pipeline.

Archibald Leach	Cary Grant.

In "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations", he's paired with Michael Jackson for writing "We Are The World"	Lionel Richie.

A court of justice	Trribunal.

On Dutch maps, this country is called Oostenrijk	Austria.

The 1945 headline "Bomber Hits" this skyscraper meant a plane, not a person	Empire State Building.

Charles Buchinsky	Charles Bronson.

In the "Book Of Sports Legends" is this man who threw the first pitch in a World Series game	Cy Young.

Collective name of Julius Caesar, Pompey the Great & Marcus Licinius Crassus	Triumverate.

When shopping on Saba, an island in this sea, look for the beautiful, delicate Saba lace	Caribbean Sea.

"Berlin Reported Him Missing And Insane" when he "Flies To Scotland" in May 1941	Rudolf Hess.

Margarita Cansino	Rita Hayworth.

In "The Almanac of Famous People" is this "Father of Television"	Vladimir Zworykin.

Bet in which the bettor must correctly choose the first 3 finishers in a horse race in exact order	Trifecta.

Upon this man's assassination, Nehru said, "The light has gone out of our lives"	Mahatma Gandhi.

In a 1997 play Stacie Chaiken starred as Constance, wife of this "Earnest" author	Oscar Wilde.

In the late '70s, Phyllis Schlafly lobbied for the defeat of this proposed constitutional amendment	the ERA (Equal Rights Amendment).

The largest cities in Canada's "Prairie Provinces" are Edmonton & Calgary in this one	Alberta.

Actor Leif Erickson was Frances' first of 3 of these	husbands.

In a 1981 hit song, Rick Springfield wished that he had her	"Jessie's Girl".

When asked how he became a hero, this president replied, "It was involuntary.

They sank my boat"	John F.

Kennedy.

"Dejavu" was "Angry Young Man" John Osborne's 1992 sequel to this famous play about looking back	Look Back in Anger.

She gave up Gary Hart & "Monkey Business" & became a spokesperson for "Enough Is Enough"	Donna Rice.

Seen here alone, this animal is often found in coteries & colonies	a prairie dog.

She earned an Oscar nomination for playing Frances	Jessica Lange.

Jason Robards played editor Ben Bradlee in this 1976 film	All the President's Men.

In 1830 Daniel Webster told the Senate, "Liberty and" this, "now and forever, one and inseparable"	Union.

Shakespeare's 2 greatest contemporaries: one was murdered in 1593 & one killed a man in 1598	Christopher Marlowe & Ben Jonson.

After his forced resignation from the Senate in 1995, he took an interest in lumber & other natural resources	Bob Packwood.

In "Badlands of Dakota" Frances was this Wild West lady to Richard Dix's Wild Bill	Calamity Jane.

(Hi, I'm Wallace Langham.)  I play Josh, the assistant to Ronnie Chase, this show's title character	Veronica's Closet.

In 1862 Otto von Bismarck said that the questions of the day would be settled by this "and blood"	iron.

Robert Bolt depicted Elizabeth I in "Vivat! Vivat Regina!" & Henry VIII in this play	A Man for All Seasons.

In 1997 Jack Williams of this company was indicted for lying about his dealings with Mike Espy	Tyson Foods.

In college an essay Frances wrote for a radical newspaper won her a trip to this country	the Soviet Union (USSR).

The painting seen here called "The Orgy" is from this series of artworks by Hogarth	The Rake's Progress.

In 1973 he warned Nixon, "We have a cancer within, close to the presidency, that is growing"	John Dean.

"Romanoff and Juliet" is one of many plays by this actor-writer of Russian descent	Peter Ustinov.

Victor Crawford lobbied for, then against, this industry before his death from cancer	the tobacco industry.

In 1958 this TV host said, "Frances Farmer, This Is Your Life!"	Ralph Edwards.

In literature, gamekeeper Oliver Mellors	Lady Chatterley's Lover.

Dozens of web sites are devoted to picking on this Sheryl Leach creation who only gives love	Barney.

He had a good year in 1928; construction began on the NYC art deco building named for him & he acquired Dodge	Walter Chrysler.

Committed to TV, Tom Selleck had to turn down this role in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (curse you, Hawaiian shirt!)	Indiana Jones.

In 2008 the Phoenix Mars lander found ice on this region of the planet	the poles.

Gee, Wally, this classic TV show premiered on October 4, 1957	Leave It to Beaver.

"The Nanny Diaries" & "Q is for Quarry"	the 2000s.

An old gold coin equal to 2 pistoles	a doubloon.

This Frenchman was the designer for the company that bore his name, GM's largest division	Chevrolet.

E.T.

would have followed a trail of this candy, but the Mars company said no; not even the red ones	M&Ms.

The New Horizons mission was launched to explore this planet before it was downgraded to a dwarf	Pluto.

One of the 2 U.S.

states with the beaver as the state animal: one's on the west coast & one's on the east	Oregon (or New York).

"The Godfather" & "Airport"	the '60s.

5-letter word for "remote in manner"	aloof.

In 1932 this auto racer began using the squadron badge of a WWI flying ace: a prancing horse	Ferrari.

Nicole Kidman dropped out of playing Brad Pitt's wife in this film; you may have heard Angelina Jolie got the part	Mr.

& Mrs.

Smith.

The Hinode mission showed magnetic waves are critical in driving the flow of charged particles called this wind	the solar wind.

Grey Beaver is the first master of this Jack London wolf-dog	White Fang.

"The Power of Positive Thinking" & "Marjorie Morningstar"	the 1950s.

A sailing vessel with a single mast	a sloop.

The emblem seen here represents this line of cars, named for auto pioneer David	Buick.

Will Smith turned down the lead in this futuristic 1999 flick, later saying of it, "Keanu was brilliant"	The Matrix.

The Cassini project is exploring Titan & Enceladus, moons of this second-largest planet	Saturn.

As a boy Joe Namath had a dam good time growing up strong in this Pennsylvania city	Beaver Falls.

"The Yearling" & "Of Mice and Men"	the 1930s.

Unsecured pages of a book in removable form	looseleaf.

James Sumner & Henry Spurrier founded the company that became "British" this, owner of Jaguar	British Leyland.

Eddie Murphy got the role in this '84 police comedy after Sylvester Stallone dropped out	Beverly Hills Cop.

The MESSENGER craft is the first mission to explore this planet since mariner 10 in the 1970s	Mercury.

"The Beaver's Lesson" is the title of part 5 of this author's "The Hunting of the Snark"	Lewis Carroll.

"The Mammoth Hunters" & "The Queen of the Damned"	the 1980s.

Chinese city opposite Hong Kong island	Kowloon.

In 1566 this "Magnificent" sultan was succeeded by his not-so-magnificent son Selim II, "the Sot"	Suleyman.

Prince: "2000 zero zero party over, oops, out of time, so tonight I'm gonna party like it's ____"	1999.

Camus & Buber were big in this movement that said humans were fully responsible for making meaning of their own lives	existentialism.

After review, the bierwurst, lop chong & kielbasa, types of these, were overcooked	sausage.

Southwest of Louisville, it's where you'll find much of the U.S.

government's gold reserve	Fort Knox.

Put this 3-letter Latin word meaning "thus" or "so" right after the error in a quoted passage	sic.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  The Ottoman Empire reached its greatest extent by 1683, with one of its last acquisitions being this island conquered in 1669 after a 21-year siege	Crete.

ABBA: "You are the dancing queen, young & sweet, only ____"	17.

The name of this study of moral principles is derived from a Greek word meaning "habit"	ethics.

This notoriously smelly cheese whose last U.S.

maker is in Monroe, Wisconsin was fumbled on aisle 3	Limburger.

The only Benelux country that fits the bill	Luxembourg.

AskOxford.com says the most commonly cited collective term for these animals is a clowder	cats.

The Ottoman empire ended in 1922 when this man led a movement that established the Republic of Turkey	(Mustafa) Kemal (or Kemal Ataturk).

Counting Crows: "In 1492 Columbus sailed the ocean blue, in ____ he came home across the deep blue sea"	1493.

This philosophical movement holds that the truth value of a proposition lies in its practicality	pragmatism.

This rich 5-letter cake with eggs, ground nuts & little to no flour, is down by contact with my stomach	torte.

The harbor of this Nova Scotia capital is one of the largest in the world	Halifax.

Brits don't like this name for a phone keypad symbol--reminds them of a unit of currency that has another symbol	pound.

In 1326 the Ottomans moved their capital to Bursa, which is in this Asian part of modern-day Turkey	Anatolia.

Foreigner: "Well I'm hot blooded, check it and see, got a fever of ____"	103.

Founded by Zeno of Citium, this -ism is the belief that detachment & self-control enable one to argue in an unbiased fashion	stoicism.

We rule this fish seen here to be a catch, not a roost for birds--& also delicious	a perch.

This city on the Salt River sits on the eastern edge of the Sonoran Desert	Phoenix.

This 2-letter abbreviation means "which see" in Latin & directs readers to another part of the book for info	q.v..

Between 1656 & 1735 members of the Albanian Koprulu family served the sultan as this "grand" executive officer	(grand) vizier.

Blink-182: "That's about the time she walked away from me, nobody likes you when you're ___"	23.

"Every virtue is laudable.

Kindness is a virtue.

Therefore, kindness is laudable" is a logical this	syllogism.

Upon review, this "circular" cut of meat from below the rump was too gristly	the round.

The first winter Olympics took place in this French mountain resort	Chamonix.

AskOxford.com tells us that this word is the missing one in the sequence primary, secondary...

quaternary	tertiary.

In 2009 this man who died on Molokai in 1889 became Hawaii's first saint	Father Damien.

Distinct alabaster fur; you'll know him by the big pocket watch he refers to; careful--he moves quickly	the White Rabbit.

The hand gesture with 2 pairs of fingers bunched together was made by this Vulcan on the original "Star Trek"	Mr.

Spock.

1968: The Statue of Liberty sticks up out of the sand	Planet of the Apes.

Argentina	Spanish.

This semipublic corporation that operates intercity U.S.

passenger trains was created by Congress in 1970	Amtrak.

The website for this snack features the Double Stuf Racing League	Oreo.

Don't let the smile fool you--this feline has razor-sharp claws & a cloaking device; terminate with extreme prejudice	the Cheshire Cat.

U.S.

code says that when this song plays, you put your hand over your heart	the national anthem.

1999: The first rule of this film is Brad Pitt doesn't really exist	Fight Club.

Austria	German.

The Tokaido Shinkansen, known by this "weapon" name, can hit 185 mph	the bullet train.

Herr Bismarck knows this given name comes from a Germanic word meaning "rich"	Otto.

She tried to whack Alice with that "off with her head" line; wait 'til she gets a load of you	the Queen of Hearts.

One of the two youth organizations that use the hand sign seen here	the Boy Scouts of America (or the Girl Scouts).

1968: The baby's father, could it be...

Satan?	Rosemary's Baby.

Canada (both, please)	French & English.

13-letter word for the operations manager of a depot or terminal	stationmaster.

It's another word for margarine	oleo.

These 2 brothers may look like dimwits but they're vicious; beware the sword & umbrella, their weapons of choice	Tweedledum & Tweedledee.

In Christian ritual it involves moving the hand from the forehead, to the chest & then to each shoulder in turn	crossing oneself.

1959: Joe E.

Brown discovers that "she" is really a guy	Some Like It Hot.

Egypt	Arabic.

Organized in 1867, his firm built, staffed & operated sleeping cars on all major U.S.

railroads	(George) Pullman.

This term for an extended musical composition comes from the Italian for "small chapel"	oratorio.

A suspected drug dealer who smokes from a hookah & peddles mushrooms--he's gotta go	the Caterpillar.

The titles of a 1927 Al Jolson film & a 1979 Bob Fosse film gave us the term for these hands	jazz hands.

1932: The unusual circus performers discover Olga's murderous plans & turn her into a "chicken woman"	Freaks.

Brazil	Portuguese.

On April 30, 1900 this engineer gave his life in a train crash to save his passengers; his name would live on in ballads	Casey Jones.

L.A.

restaurant Locanda Veneta serves this veal dish con risotto	osso bucco.

Frank Rich wrote you could feel Broadway history being made in this musical about a black female singing group	Dreamgirls.

1990: Madonna turns a magazine into a dance	"Vogue".

That hair! Those shorts! Both are still around for this exercise guy known for his "Sweatin' to the Oldies"	Richard Simmons.

Denver dish: TOT MELEE	omelette.

He worked on his "An American in Paris" while staying with brother Ira at Paris' Hotel Majestic	George Gershwin.

Feather pen (5)	quill.

Times multimedia features include snapshots taken at this exit, the proverbial spot to have a moment with a theater star	the stage door.

1975: John Denver explains why he's grateful for the simple, rural life	"Thank God I'm A Country Boy".

John Gray penned the book these 2 planets "Together Forever--Relationship Skills for Lasting Love"	Mars & Venus (Venus & Mars accepted).

A pancake-like offering in Rome: FAT TRAIT	frittata.

This statesman attended Masonic lodge meetings with the sculptor Houdon, who did the bust of him seen here	Benjamin Franklin.

To drink heartily (5)	quaff.

The Times found audience participation having a heyday in shows like "The 25th Annual Putnam County" this	Spelling Bee.

1968: Marvin Gaye gets the news through third parties that his girlfriend will be leaving him	"Heard It Through the Grapevine".

Rick Warren guided readers on a 40-day spiritual journey in the No.

1 bestseller "The" this "Driven Life"	Purpose.

Shhh!  I'm making this egg dish for a dessert!: OF FUELS	souffl.

In March 1971 this rocker closed the door on his band & moved to Paris to focus on his poetry	Jim Morrison.

Jelly fruit (6)	quince.

As a critics' pick in 2008, this Lin-Manuel Miranda musical was called "a salsa-flavored soap opera"	In the Heights.

Vanilla Ice, 1990: The rapper is quite confident in both his MC abilities & his appeal to women	"Ice Ice Baby".

"The Art of Happiness" was written by this Asian man who was picked out for his present job at the age of 2	the Dalai Lama.

South of the border treat: OH NERVOUS SEARCH	huevos rancheros.

While minister to France, 1784-1789, this future president enjoyed Parisian culture, as well as the fine food & wine	Thomas Jefferson.

Petty critique (7)	quibble.

Ben Brantley says "injustice has been very good" to this musical writing duo; see "Chicago" & their new "The Scottsboro Boys"	Kander & Ebb.

J.

Geils, 1982: Horrors!  The singer must deal with his "angel" being cute enough to be featured in a men's magazine	"Centerfold".

Last name of Dale, who wrote "How to Win Friends and Influence People"	Carnegie.

It sounds like a dance: EMU REIGN	meringue.

Sherwood Anderson & Ernest Hemingway were among the expatriate writers who hung out at her Paris salon	Gertrude Stein.

A literary bell ringer (9)	Quasimodo.

A contemporary review of this 1851 novel said, "Who would have looked for...

poetry in blubber?"	Moby-Dick.

The baluchitherium, an extinct type of this pachyderm, had no horn, unlike modern species	a rhinoceros.

Aaron Spelling's daughter Tori plays Donna Martin on this popular TV series	Beverly Hills, 90210.

A box of 64 Crayola crayons has one of these devices "built-in"	a sharpener.

In October 1971 Taiwan was expelled from this organization & Red China was admitted	the UN.

After a family meal, you may fold this item & place it back inside its ring	a napkin.

Something that turns out well "comes up smelling like" these flowers	roses.

The dodo was found on the Islands of Reunion, Rodrigues & Mauritius in this ocean	the Indian Ocean.

When this singer starred in a revival of "Funny Girl", one critic said, "Pia doesn't fall on her fanny"	Pia Zadora.

In 1835 C.S.A.

Thilorier froze this gas to create the first "dry ice"	carbon dioxide.

During Japanese control of Taiwan, this largest city was called Taihoku	Taipei.

The most formal evening wear is this color "tie", but black tie is much more popular	white tie.

Because artists tend to flatter their models, a fine-looking female is said to be "as pretty as" this	a picture.

The last known representative of this type of pigeon died in the Cincinnati Zoo in 1914	the passenger pigeon.

Patrick Stewart wrote & starred in a one-man show based on this Dickens Christmas classic	A Christmas Carol.

After hearing this invention of his work, Edison said, "I was never so taken aback in my life"	the phonograph.

His birthday is observed as a holiday on October 31	Chiang Kai-shek.

Some small wedding receptions eliminate this greeting line that was once de rigeueur	the receiving line (the reception line accepted).

A fine voice is "as clear as" one of these tintinnabulating objects	a bell.

Steller's Sea Cow was a relative of this rare aquatic mammal found in Florida	the manatee.

This British actress played Isadora Duncan on film in 1968 & onstage in 1991	Vanessa Redgrave.

C.

Vanderbilt thought George Westinghouse's idea of stopping a train by this means a fool notion	the air brake.

It is prohibited to bring literature promoting this ideology into Taiwan	Communism.

Black ribbon streamers on a family's front door were once a sign of this	mourning.

A really fast person runs like this kind of "lightning"as if regular lightning isn't fast enough	greased lightning.

The name of this extinct elephant-like creature comes from Greek meaning "breast tooth"	a mastodon.

Playwright who made his film debut in "Renaldo and Clara" in 1978 & won a Pulitzer Prize for Drama in '79	Sam Shepard.

First built in 1960, it's also been called an optical maser	laser.

Mariners from this country named Taiwan Ilha Formosa, but didn't colonize it	Portugal.

In 1922 Emily Post wrote, "A gentleman takes off" this "when a lady enters the elevator"	his hat.

A person who's out of his element is "like a fish" in this predicament	out of water.

In 1991 B.C.

Amenemhet, a former vizier, founded this country's 12th dynasty	Egypt.

"Homage to the Queen", a tribute to her, premiered on her coronation day in 1953	Elizabeth II.

Unlike most birds, ratites like the ostrich can't do this	fly.

The summer varieties of this gourd-like vegetable are eaten green; the winter ones, ripe	squash.

In 1777 Chief Joseph Brant led his fellow Mohawks in the Battle of Oriskany during this war	the Revolutionary War.

This novelist's youthful voyages provided the basis for such works as "Lord Jim" & "Typhoon"	Conrad.

Because his proposals for constitutional change were defeated, this French president resigned in 1969	Charles de Gaulle.

This dancer choreographed a new version of "The Nutcracker" in 1976, a "Turning Point" in his career	Baryshnikov.

Associated with this sense, the olfactory lobe is better developed in most vertebrates than in man	smell.

This fruit with many seeds is grown on the Punica granatum tree	a pomegranate.

A woman claiming to be this Lewis & Clark companion died in 1884; she would have been about 100	Sacagawea.

He dictated his last novel, "The Brothers Karamazov", to his wife who took it down in shorthand	Dostoevsky.

In 1919 this national assembly met in this city & formed a new German republic	Weimar.

The School of American Ballet is the official school of this major metropolitan ballet company	New York (City Ballet).

Renin, an enzyme that breaks down protein, is secreted by cells in this organ	the kidney.

Poi, a luau treat, is made from these mashed roots	taro.

Geronimo rode in this U.S.

president's 1905 inaugural parade	Theodore Roosevelt.

This Scottish novelist is buried at the summit of Mt.

Vaea on Upolu, an island of Western Samoa	Robert Louis Stevenson.

The parents of this Peruvian president immigrated from Japan 4 years prior to his birth	Fujimori.

This Spanish seducer is attacked by furies at the end of a 1936 ballet	Don Juan.

Common "colorful" term for the eythrocytes, which transport oxygen around the body	the red blood cells.

A greengage is a plum & a greening is this fruit	an apple.

When this chief, Pocahontas' father, died in 1618, he was succeeded by his brother Opitchapam	Powhatan.

This novelist's nonfiction book "Miami and the Siege of Chicago" was about the 1968 political conventions	Norman Mailer.

About 3000 B.S.

the Sumerians invented this writing system which used triangular marks	cuneiform.

First performed in 1905, this very short solo ballet depicts the last minutes in the life of a bird	The Dying Swan.

This nucleic acid occurs in 3 forms: messenger, ribosomal & transfer	RNA.

This somewhat coarse root vegetable is also called a swede or a Swedish turnip	a rutabaga.

This chief once called "The Apache Napoleon" died in the Arizona territory in 1874	Cochise.

He followed his first novel, "Appointment in Samarra", with "BUtterfield 8"	John O'Hara.

The name of this river, famous in song, may be a corruption of the Spanish for "little Saint John"	the Swanee.

Safes, a type of these desert formations, are often many miles long & several hundred feet high	sand dunes.

When Marie Osmond toured in this play in 1994, her eldest son, Steven, played Kurt Von Trapp	The Sound of Music.

At the July 1988 Democratic National Convention this Massachusetts governor was nominated for president	Michael Dukakis.

While these small bread cubes often top salads, larger versions can be used to catch drippings	croutons.

These blood-sucking worms are used in medicine today to drain hematomas	leeches.

Zealous, like a beaver (5)	eager.

Sausage trees, found in Africa, are pollinated by these flying mammals	bats.

This 1946 musical that featured the following was Irving Berlin's biggest Broadway hit:  "I'm quick on the trigger / With targets not much bigger / Than a pinpoint, a number 1..."	Annie Get Your Gun.

The Thatcher government imposed a broadcast ban on this political wing of the IRA	Sinn Fein.

A raw egg yolk usually accompanies this raw meat dish	Steak Tartare.

Light flashes in the field of vision may mean this optic tissue has become detatched	the retina.

Mistaken (9)	erroneous.

This largest U.S.

cactus can weigh as much as 10 tons	saguaro.

Scott Bakula played Joe DiMaggio in a 1983 musical about this sex symbol	Marilyn Monroe.

After 32 years in power, Janos Kadar was ousted as first secretary of this country's Communist Party	Hungary.

Butternut refers to both an actual nut & this type of gourd	squash.

This artificial sweetner has been associated with bladder cancer in animal experiments	saccharin.

On-screen, they're "special" (7)	effects.

Often found clinging to rocks, limpids are a type of this mollusk	snails.

Elaine Stritch plays Capt.

Andy's wife Parthy in the current revival of this Jerome Kern musical	Show Boat.

A 1988 plebiscite said that this Chilean dictator had to be out of office by March of 1990	Augusto Pinochet.

It's an Italian version of an omelet, served pancake-style	a frittata.

Apnea is the temporary cessation of this	breathing.

Count off one-by-one (9)	enumerate.

In the South, buildings have been engulfed & trees have been smothered by this Oriental vine gone wild	kudzu.

"Kismet"'s music is adapted from the works of this "Prince Igor" composer	Alexander Borodin.

Along with the Marcoses, this Saudi arms merchant was indicted in October on charges of racketeering	Adnan Khashoggi.

They're the two common vegetables in the English dish bubble & squeak	potato & cabbage.

In vitiligo, a common disorder, patches of skin lose this	pigment (or color).

The "bigger picture" (11)	enlargement.

In 213 B.C., Ch'in Shih Huang-ti ordered all of these burned, except the ones in the imperial library	books.

Antelope Island in this Utah lake is used as a refuge for bison	the Great Salt Lake.

On the second Sunday in May, the French honor her with a holiday	Joan of Arc.

When he left for his second voyage in September of 1493, he had a fleet of seventeen ships, fourteen more than his first trip	Christopher Columbus.

They can be crew, knee, or bobby	socks.

In F.

Scott Fitzgerald's classic novel, Nick Carraway lives next door to this title character	the Great Gatsby.

This pupil of Socrates went to Sicily to try to turn Dionysius into a philosopher king	Plato.

Albuquerque, New Mexico lies on this 1885-mile long river	the Rio Grande.

March 1st is the feast day of this patron saint of Wales	St.

David.

The Duque de Medina- Sidonia commanded this fleet in 1588	the Spanish Armada.

This Channel Island has a close-fitting knitted shirt or sweater named for it, in addition to a cow	Jersey.

Part I of this Willa Cather novel is entitled "The Wild Land"	O Pioneers!.

Tikal became an important ceremonial center of this civilization, prior to 300 A.D.	the Mayans.

From its incorporation in 1813 until 1901, this New York village was known as Sing-Sing	Ossining.

St.

Raphael shares his feast day, September 29, with these two archangels	Michael & Gabriel.

This company's fleet has included the Queen Mary, Queen Elizabeth, & Queen Elizabeth II	Cunard.

A plastron is the quilted pad worn by competitors in this sport to protect their torso & sides	fencing.

His novel "Daisy Miller" opens at the Trois Couronnes hotel in Vevey, Switzerland	Henry James.

He was only 16 when he became Roman emperor upon the death of Claudius	Nero.

South Carolina's highest point, Sassafras Mountain, rises 3,560 feet in this range of the Appalachians	the Blue Ridge Mountains.

This man who added utopia to our vocabulary was made a saint in 1935	St.

Thomas More.

This empire's fleet was defeated in the 1571 Battle of Lepanto	the Ottoman Empire.

This apron for young girls has a ruffled bibbed top & a gathered skirt	a pinafore.

He published his third novel, "A Cool Million", in 1934, one year after "Miss Lonelyhearts"	Nathanael West.

This Old Kingdom capital of Egypt was originally named Hikouptah	Memphis.

This Lake Erie port in Northwest Ohio was once called "the Glass Capital of the World"	Toledo.

This scholarly 13th century saint was often called "The Angelic Doctor"	St.

Thomas Aquinas.

The Black Sea fleet in dispute between Russia & Ukraine is based at this Crimean port	Sevastopol.

It's the fur pouch that a Scotsman wears on the front of his kilt	a sporon.

In English, Ivan Turgenev's novel "Ottsy i Deti" is known by this "familial" title"	Fathers and Sons.

This former U.N.

ambassador is a co-chairman of the host city's committee for the 1996 Olympic Games	Andrew Young.

It follows "Pitts-" in the U.S.

& "Edin-" in Scotland; we'll accept either pronunciation	burgh (or "borough").

"Immigrant goes to America, many hellos in America; nobody knows in America, Puerto Rico's in America!"	West Side Story.

In 1997 Wham-O introduced a Max Flight version of this 1950s sensation that flew farther & was easy to catch	the Frisbee.

This Seuss character who lived in a cave "stood there on Christmas Eve, hating the Whos"	the Grinch.

Ohio: This redbird	a cardinal.

"Thin" piece of disputed Israeli-Palestinian land involved in a clothes-shedding card game	Gaza Strip Poker.

To pass for a native of Danvers, Massachusetts, don't pronounce this letter in the town's name	the R (the "Ah").

"He had it comi	Chicago.

Wham-O owners heard about Australian kids using a bamboo ring for exercise; it became this 1958 fad	a Hula hoop.

This Harry Potter bad guy's name is French for "flight from death"	Voldemort.

Virginia: This bird, not Albert Pujols	the cardinal.

Film legend who became an 1823 edict against European intervention in the Western Hemisphere	the Marilyn Monroe Doctrine.

Pedernales is in the Dominican Republic; north of the border, the Pedernales River is in this state	Texas.

"I can smile at the old days, I was beautiful then, I remember the time I knew that happiness was"	Cats.

Wham-O received its name from this first product; when a projectile hit its target, it made a "Wham-O" sound	a slingshot.

This villainess of "The Wizard of Oz" ruled over the Winkies	the Wicked Witch of the West.

West Virginia: This crested bird	the cardinal.

"Bouncy" 1965 Beatles album that took over for Don Cornelius as host of a dance show	Rubber Soul Train.

(Hi.

I'm Allan Houston of the New York Knicks.)  Don't say my name like this New York City street that's south of & parallel to Bleecker	Houston Street.

"Whatever Lola wants, Lola gets, and little man, little Lola wants you"	Damn Yankees.

This 1962 Wham-O game named for a dance craze came with a moveable cross bar & 2 support stands	limbo.

Mrs.

Augustine St.

Clare sold Uncle Tom to this brutal, alcoholic plantation owner who later beat him to death	Simon Legree.

Kentucky: This colorful songbird	a cardinal.

Robert E.

Lee's "right arm" general who sang "ABC" with a singing group	Stonewall Jackson 5.

This Ohio village, Thomas Edison's birthplace, is named for a North Italian city but rhymes with "stylin'"	Milan.

"All I need is one more try, gotta get that kite to fly"	You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown.

Versions of this lawn toy to keep you cool in the summer include "Wave Rider" & "Bounce 'N Splash"	a Slip 'N Slide.

This villainous aide in a Shakespeare play states flatly, "I hate the Moor"	Iago.

Missouri:  Not a redbird but this colorful creature	a bluebird.

1935 "lunar" Florida song that turned into an '80s Florida cop show	"Moon Over Miami Vice".

This creature is the main predator of wolverines; what else would be dumb enough to take one on?	man.

This 2000 film was based on Sebastian Junger's bestseller about a hurricane that meets a cold front	The Perfect Storm.

Logically enough, this planet has the strongest magnetic field of any planet in our solar system	Jupiter.

The U.S.

condemned this country's October 2006 nuclear test as a "provocative act"	North Korea.

2-syllable name for the long-ago elephant relative with 13-foot tusks that has become a synonym for "huge"	a mammoth.

He was the de facto leader of China from the late 1970s to the early 1990s	Deng Xiaoping.

During the winter, wolverines hunt caribou & this animal of the genus Rangifer; Santa's gonna be mad	reindeer.

Bogey & Bacall's final film together was this one that saw them waiting out a storm in Florida	Key Largo.

Around 1904 this Norwegian explorer confirmed that the Earth's magnetic poles are not fixed	Amundsen.

In 2000 Zalmay Khalizad, future U.S.

envoy here, Talibandied its name about in "Consolidation of a Rogue State"	Afghanistan.

From this author we get the adjective "brobdingnagian", meaning "gigantic"	(Jonathan) Swift.

Seen here, Nicholas Brendon played this character on TV's "Buffy the Vampire Slayer"	Xander.

The website for this state's legislature says no bear "can match the vicious disposition...

of the wolverine"	Michigan.

Hurricane Camille leaves only one operational shrimping boat in Bayou La Batre in this 1994 Oscar winner	Forrest Gump.

(Jon of the Clue Crew indicates a flask.) The shape of the actual magnetic field can be traced using small pieces of this metal	iron.

This president's administration changed the term "rogue state" to "states of concern"	Bill Clinton.

Rabelaisian adjective meaning "enormous", like a task	gargantuan.

His dad Earl Little was an outspoken Baptist minister & supporter of black nationalist leader Marcus Garvey	Malcolm X.

The probe used to investigate tornados in this film is aptly named Dorothy	Twister.

An alnico magnet is an alloy having these 3 elements as its principal ingredients	aluminum, nickel, cobalt.

In August of 2006, the man seen here said this country would not give up its homegrown nuclear technology	Iran.

This adjective that means "amazingly large" or "causing amazement" is from the Latin for "to be stunned"	stupendous.

This Persian son of Darius I burned Athens in 480 B.C.	Xerxes.

Bears have cubs; wolverine newborns are known as these, like foxes & beavers	kits.

In this cool 2004 film, climatologist Dennis Quaid is right & much of the U.S.

evacuates to Mexico	The Day After Tomorrow.

(Jon shows images of early devices on the monitor.) Early electromagnets, like Joseph Henry's in 1831, were horseshoe-shaped to double the pulling power of this type of magnet	a bar magnet.

This country's acceptance of responsibility for the Pan Am 103 bombing helped it lose its rogue status	Libya.

Immeasurably great, like the "Jest" in a David Foster Wallace title	infinite.

The "Apostle of the Indies", this missionary helped found the Jesuits & introduced Christianity to Japan	Francis Xavier.

In 1616, after Hudson died, this man became the 1st European to reach Ellesmere Island; an island & bay are named for him	(William) Baffin.

He was living in Tahiti when he painted "Poemes Barbares" in 1896	Paul Gauguin.

Rick Blaine	Casablanca.

You shouldn't "cast" them "before swine", but you can give them for a 12th or 30th anniversary gift	Pearls.

A bumpkin, perhaps a local one	Yokel.

TV show whose theme says, "The Minnow will be lost"	Gilligan's Island.

Agnes Baden-Powell helped found the Girl Guides soon after her brother Robert founded this movement	Boy Scouts.

We know he painted the absinthe drinker seen here, though there's nary a tutu in sight:	Edgar Degas.

Sam Spade	The Maltese Falcon.

It's a nice gift for the 35th, but if you take it out of a U.S.

reef you may be arrested	Coral.

"Meshugge" means crazy in this language of Europe's Ashkenazic Jews	Yiddish.

Lost in the forest, this pair happens upon a house made of bread, cake & sugar	Hansel & Gretel.

Ben Franklin helped found this Ivy League school that had the USA's first medical school	University of Pennsylvania.

Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun was noted for portraits of this queen, including the one with her children, seen here:	Marie Antoinette.

Captain Queeg	The Caine Mutiny.

In one form or another you can fork over this metal on the 5th or 25th anniversary	Silver.

It can be a standard for comparison, or a measuring rod 3 feet in length	Yardstick.

Presumably she was lost at sea after vanishing in the central Pacific in July 1937	Amelia Earhart.

In the early 1900s William Durant put together Buick, Oldsmobile & other companies to found this corporation	General Motors.

Andre Derain was a prominent painter in this style whose name is from the French for "wild beasts"	Fauvism.

Fred C.

Dobbs	The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.

19th century American "King of the South" that's a 2nd anniversary gift	Cotton.

First name shared by monsieurs Saint Laurent & Montand	Yves.

It's said that this gem was cut from a stone called the French Blue, which was lost after a crown jewel heist in 1792	Hope Diamond.

Fritz & Laura Perls founded this school of psychotherapy, from German for "form"	Gestalt.

This resident of Argenteuil painted "The Regatta at Argenteuil", seen here:	Claude Monet.

Charlie Allnut	The African Queen.

This 10th anniversary present is present in the name of a 20th anniversary gift -- platinum	Tin.

Aden is the second-largest city in this Middle Eastern hot spot	Yemen.

Performed annually in North Carolina, "The Lost Colony" is an outdoor drama about this lost colony	Roanoke Island.

Cowboy nickname of William Donovan, founder of the OSS & of modern U.S.

intelligence	"Wild Bill".

It's the only provincial capital with its own Major League Baseball team	Toronto (Blue Jays).

In 1990 she lost the race for California governor; in 1992 she won the race for California senator	Dianne Feinstein.

His First Symphony debuted April 2 in Vienna; 8 to go...	Ludwig von Beethoven.

In a 1979 hit by the Police she's told, "You don't have to sell your body to the night"	"Roxanne".

Wyndham,  C.S., Sinclair	Lewis.

Rarebit, as in Welsh Rarebit, is an alteration of this word that's not an ingredient in Welsh Rarebit	Rabbit.

This Manitoba capital's name is derived from 2 Cree Indian words meaning "murky water"	Winnipeg.

Politician seen here in 1962, the year he was first elected to the Senate:	Edward (Ted) Kennedy.

This vulcanization inventor was born a bouncing baby boy in 1800	Charles Goodyear.

You might think this Cars leader is married to supermodel Paulina Porizkova (& you'd be right)	Ric Ocasek.

C.K., Emlyn, Tennessee	Williams.

From the Welsh for "dwarf dog", it's also a miniature toy car brand	Corgi.

Vancouver isn't on Vancouver Island, but this capital is	Victoria.

When admiring the Stamford train station, thank this state's Christopher Dodd, who helped secure funding	Connecticut.

William Herschel discovered these "rays" beyond the red end of the visible spectrum	Infrared rays.

A drum machine christened "Echo" helped launch this hopping band to fame & fortune	Echo & the Bunnymen.

John, Taylor, Erskine	Caldwell.

"Arthur-itative" sources say her name is Welsh for "white" or "fair"	Guinevere.

Now a provincial capital, it was once the capital of New France	Quebec City.

An IRA that allows tax-free withdrawals is named for this Delaware senator	William Roth.

France got this territory back from Spain in 1800, saying it wouldn't transfer it again to anyone but Spain	Louisiana.

Last name of Gary, the former Tubeway Army leader who charted with New Wave hits like "Cars"	Gary Numan.

Frank, Hart, Stephen	Crane.

The name of this Olympic weapon may go back to the Welsh gaflach, "forked branch"	Javelin.

In 1947 huge oil deposits were discovered in this city 175 miles north of Calgary; it's now Canada's oil capital	Edmonton.

This man has 26 years of seniority on his fellow West Virginia senator Jay Rockefeller	Robert Byrd.

His "The Wealth of Nations" was one of the first books bought to stock the new Library of Congress	Adam Smith.

(Hi, I'm Jane Wiedlin)  Among my credits is this song that starts, "Can you hear them?  Talkin' about us, telling lies..."	"Our Lips are Sealed".

Walter M., Arthur, Henry	Miller.

Perhaps from the Welsh for "goblin", Elwood P.

Dowd's Harvey was a famous one	Pooka.

In the late '60s this character was created to show children it's okay to be grumpy	Oscar the Grouch (from \"Sesame Street\").

Tonight, the wooden teeth--fact or fiction? Also, his 1754 Fort Necessity battle loss...Mt.

Vernon, hello	George Washington.

Do this if you love Jesus but don't do it just as the light turns green	honk.

1983: "Speak, Speak, Speak"	"Say Say Say".

This great Spanish cubist designed sets & costumes for the 1919 ballet "The Three-Cornered Hat"	Picasso.

90% of Qatar's income comes from the export of this product	oil.

If you have other, more important things to do, you "have other' of these "to fry"	fish.

I'm all shook up about my next guest & the caller is from his hometown...Tupelo, MS., hello?	Elvis Presley.

The following sound indicates a vehicle in this gear	reverse.

1987: "Naughty"	"Bad".

"Prince Rama & the Demons" was inspired by the "Ramayana", one of the great epic poems of this country	India.

The hills around San Jose are covered with trees growing this, Costa Rica's top export	coffee.

Big throwing don'ts include "the baby out with the bathwater" & "caution to" this	the wind.

At the bottom of the hour, bet you won't miss my chat with this all time "hit king" of baseball...Cincinnati, hello?	Pete Rose.

In September 2000, Congress held hearings on this company's product found on Fords	Firestone.

1983: "Get Out Of Here!"	"Beat It".

"Happiness is just a thing called Joe" goes one of the songs in the 1997 ballet about this late sex symbol	Marilyn Monroe.

This crop is king in Mali; about 1/2 of its export income comes from it	cotton.

In "A Psalm of Life, " Longfellow tells of leaving these behind "on the sands of time"	footprints.

A special Larry King tonight this "wubbulous" children's author & his thoughts on Rosie starring in his big Broadway show	Dr.

Seuss.

Experts disagree on whether 10 & 2 o'clock or 9 & 3 is better for this; no one thinks much of the old wrist drape	steering wheel position.

1984: "Suspenseful Movie"	"Thriller".

Phillip Feeny's eerie music for the British ballet based on this spooky 19th C.

novel is heard here	Dracula.

A big export for Tuvalu is copia, the dried meat of this	coconut.

William Congreve expounded, "heav'n has no rage, like love to hatred turn'd, nor hell a fury like" this	a woman scorned.

He was 77 when he returned to space in '98; he talks to us now via satellite from Ohio	John Glenn.

"Multitudinous" name for this part of the car that transmits gases from the cylinders to the exhaust pipe	exhaust manifold.

1982: "Said Female Belongs To Me"	"The Girl Is Mine".

In ancient times, the most famous export of the Phoenician town of Byblos to Greece was this material	papyrus.

This phrase meaning "to betray someone" came from slaves sent illegally via the Mississippi to New Orleans	to sell them down the river.

Therefore it's this 17th century mathematician and philosopher--I think	Descartes.

Humulin used by diabetics is short for "human" this	insulin.

At nearly 11,000 feet this "active" spot is Sicily's highest point	Mount Etna.

"Ordinary People" (1980)	Robert Redford.

He shuffled off this mortal coil in Warm Springs, GA from a cerebral hemorrhage	FDR.

The Reinheitsgebot is the law of 1516 governing the purity of this 4-letter drink	beer.

Peachy thoughts from this uber philosopher include "God is Dead" & "Is Man only a blunder of God?"	Nietzsche.

Football coach & triple-bypass patient Dan Reeves advertises Zocar, which mainly aims to lower this	cholesterol.

Sicily was ceded to the Romans in 241 B.C.

after they won the first of these wars	Punic.

"Apollo 13" (1995)	Ron Howard.

His passing came in Buffalo, New York from gunshot wounds	McKinley.

Freude is this to which Beethoven composed an ode; Schadenfreude is this at someone else's misfortune	joy.

The writings of this man seen here were truly Revolutionary	Karl Marx.

Adult migraine? Ease the throbbing with 200 milligrams of this	ibuprofen.

The father of this US Supreme Court Justice was a romance language professor who had emigrated from Sicily	Scalia.

"Midnight in the Garden of Good & Evil" (1997)	Clint Eastwood.

He died in the White House, from pneumonia	(William Henry) Harrison.

A bildungsroman is this type of work covering a young hero's development	novel.

He coined the term "utopia" now meaning "an ideal place" & used it for the title of a 1516 satire	Thomas More.

The arthritis medicine lodine is an NSAID, a non-steroidal anti-this drug	inflammatory.

Heading west to Sicily from Calabria, Italy will take you "strait" to this port city of 263,000	Messina.

"Rachel, Rachel" (1968)	Paul Newman.

The end finally came for this Pres.

in Elberon, New Jersey from blood posioning after being shot	Garfield.

Sauerbraten is literally "sour roast"; this is literally "roast sausage"	Bratwurst.

By pure reason you should know he's the categorical German seen here	Immanuel Kant.

Chlorpromazine, aka this, was approved by the FDA in 1954 & became the prototype antipsychotic	thorazine.

"Cradle Will Rock" (1999)	Tim Robbins.

The 2nd Prez to die in the White House, he was felled by acute indigestion (or was it poison?)	Zachary Taylor.

Bismarck & Kissinger are among masters of this, politics based on pragmatic concerns	Realpolitik.

In 2001, she produced & hosted the Travel Channel's "Secrets of San Simeon"	Patty Hearst.

In February 1865, 2 months before surrendering, he became general in chief of all the Confederate armies	Robert E.

Lee.

This soccer player whose real first name is Mariel is one of 4 women to have scored over 100 goals in international play	Mia Hamm.

An official website for this state is www.state.nm.us	New Mexico.

Hey, "don't just sit there like a bump on" one of these	a log.

The Sumerian name for the Mesopotamian plain may have given us this name of a Biblical garden	Eden.

Watch out for sewer rats inside the "Sewer Adventure" at the Aquaria Water Museum in this Swedish capital	Stockholm.

It was the famous nickname of frontiersman & scout Christopher Carson	Kit.

This track star was nicknamed "Flo-Jo"	Florence Griffith-Joyner.

Instead of .com, Amnesty International's website is www.amnesty.

this	.org.

"Pea Soup" describes a dense one	fog.

Utu, who judged the dead at the end of each day, was the Sumerian god of this celestial body	sun.

Ride the Nutmobile thru macadamia orchards at the Big Pineapple, a top attraction in this "Down Under" country	Australia.

Dismissed from West Point for "deficiency in chemistry", he went on to paint a famous portrait of his mother	James Whistler.

A student at Great Neck North High School, she's the golden girl of the ice seen here	Sarah Hughes.

At whitehouse.gov you can learn all about Air Force One as well as this Maryland presidential retreat	Camp David.

One of the teeth in a gear	cog.

The ancient Sumerian civilization flourished in the "Fertile Crescent" region between these 2 rivers	Tigris & Euphrates.

Wow!  You can see what you'd look like in one of Ms.

Parton's wigs at this theme park named for her	Dollywood.

Her appointment to the Supreme Court in 1981 to replace Potter Stewart was history-making	Sandra Day O'Connor.

This tennis player won women's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2000 & 2001, but lost to her little sister in 2002	Venus Williams.

Seen here, Arfie fetches results at this metasearch engine	Dogpile.

Something can do this to your bad memory; it's also a wheel on a Sony Clie	jog.

Dating from around 3000 B.C., the Sumerians used this writing system seen here	cuneiform.

For a fabulous view of Barcelona, take the elevator to the top of the Monument a Colom, built to honor him	Christopher Columbus.

In one of its reading rooms, you can read up on Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of this religion	Christian Science.

This basketball star whose name rhymes with hoops named her son Jordan, after Michael Jordan	Sheryl Swoopes.

"Sari Says" is an advice column in the online version of this teen magazine	Teen People.

A fad in the '90s was this game from Hawaii that used bottle stoppers	pogs.

The Sumerian kingdom ended when this enemy king famous for his code conquered the city of Larsa	Hammurabi.

Soar above the treetops on the Skyfari aerial tram at this West Coast's city's famous zoo	San Diego.

The ballet "Jeu de Cartes" features dancing playing cards, & this one is the "trickster" of the pack	the joker.

Alvin, Simon & Theodore	chipmunks.

"Swing your partner" & "do-si-do"; it's the state dance of Oregon & Alabama	square dance.

You can have a deja entendu, meaning "already heard" in addition to this, "already seen"	deja vu.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from Colorado)  As snowflakes are frozen water vapor, they're made up of these 2 chemical elements	hydrogen & oxygen.

This car name may come from an abbreviation of "general purpose vehicle"	jeep.

The longer "romantic" version of this ballet garment was inspired by the one Taglioni wore in the 1830s	tutu.

Heathcliff	cat.

Its state song is "The Old North State"	North Carolina.

Some people won't give blood due to belonephobia, fear of these	needles.

The forked type of this runs unobstructed between the clouds & the ground	lightning.

The name of this social insect comes from the Latin word vespa	wasp.

A ballet blanc, such as "La Sylphide", traditionally features costumes of this color	white.

Pumbaa	warthog.

If you "Show Me" some mozarkite, I'll tell you that it's this state's state rock	Missouri.

This measurement was originally measured by dividing mental age by calendar age	IQ (intelligence quotient).

(Sofia of the Clue Crew reports from New York's Central Park)  Autumn leaves turn golden red as shorter days & cooler nights cause the breakdown of this green pigment	chlorophyll.

This adjective can mean extremely ornate or refer to the music from 1600 to 1750, including that of Vivaldi & Handel	Baroque.

From the French meaning "to bend", this basic bending movement prepares a dancer to spring high into the air	plie.

Babar	elephant.

This "sweet" state tree of Vermont is an important source of syrup	sugar maple.

By definition, a hypnagogic hallucination occurs while you're about to do this	fall asleep.

The frequency of a note is measured in this, abbreviated Hz	hertz.

This process is the diffusion of a fluid through a semipermeable membrane; some students seem to learn by it	osmosis.

French sculptor whose art inspired "The Eternal Idol" (hmmm...that's a "Thinker")	Auguste Rodin.

Franklin on Nickelodeon	turtle.

The juice of this bog fruit is Massachusetts' state beverage	cranberry.

Erik Erikson's concept of this type of "crisis", in which you're not sure who you are, is associated with adolescence	identity crisis.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew reports)  Botanists divide a flower into four main parts: sepals, petals, stamens & these	pistils.

This word used to describe a type of school also means "narrow in outlook"	parochial.

Once considered too sacred to use, it was later the top girl's name from 1880 to the 1940s	Mary.

To oversimplify, it's a really big hole in the ground in Arizona--1 mile deep & 277 river miles long	the Grand Canyon.

This Oscar winner for "The Piano" plays a feisty Oklahoma City police detective on TNT's "Saving Grace"	Holly Hunter.

Someone compared to this Aesop kid has lied so many times no one believes him even when he's telling the truth	the boy who cried wolf.

The gangs were all here in this play	West Side Story.

The heavenly strains of the concert grand pedal type of this instrument come from its 47 strings	a harp.

Neckwear for eating lobster	bib.

Half Dome, one of the impressive features of this national park, is seen here	Yosemite.

Although he lost the supporting actor Oscar for "Cinderella Man", he won the Emmy vote for "John Adams"	Paul Giamatti.

If you're slow but steady & you still beat a sprinter, you might be compared to this creature of fable	a turtle.

Eugene O'Neill asked that this piece not be produced until after his death	Long Day's Journey into Night.

This unit of measure is equal to .47 liters; drink up!	a pint.

It can be a small facility for outpatient care, or a whole medical establishment run by specialists	a clinic.

Check out the glistening dunes at White Sands National Monument in this state	New Mexico.

This 5-time Oscar nominee played captain Monica Rawling for a season on "The Shield"	Glenn Close.

A small person who goes up against a bigger opponent & wins evokes the story of these 2 Valley of Elah foes	David & Goliath.

This John Guare play is not about Kevin Bacon	Six Degrees of Separation.

These 2 tropic lines, north & south of the equator, are 47 degrees apart	Cancer & Capricorn.

Celebrating "a century of sanctuary" in 2009, it's Utah's first national park, though it's last alphabetically	Zion.

Executive producer of "Ugly Betty", she has also guest starred as Sofia Reyes	Salma Hayek.

The allusion "ships that pass in the night" is from this American poet's "Tales of a Wayside Inn"	Longfellow.

This Pinter play has nothing to do with a football tradition	The Homecoming.

You deserve a medal if you know that this element, symbol Ag, is No.

47 on the periodic table	silver.

Seen here, it's known to some Native Americans as Bears Lodge	Devils Tower.

"An Unmarried Woman" in the movies, she played Donald Sutherland's wife Letitia on "Dirty Sexy Money"	Jill Clayburgh.

Your vulnerability might be compared to this body part of an ancient Greek hero who killed Hector	an Achilles' heel.

This Neil Simon play also made it to the big screen	I Ought to Be in Pictures.

The Pythagorean theorem is the 47th proposition in the first book of his "Elements"	Euclid.

The first 5 digits in these represent the manufacturer; 16000 means General Mills	a bar code.

There are 88 of these, which run alphabetically from Andromeda to Vulpecula	constellations.

In April 1930 the first 3 mysteries involving her were published & became an instant success	Nancy Drew.

Noted for their "feathery" legs, these Scottish draft horses were taken to North America in 1842, Bud	Clydesdales.

Barry Gibb was born in 1946; these 2 fraternal twins were born in 1949	Robin & Maurice.

A Jewish house of worship	a synagogue.

In "A Christmas Story", the message Ralphie uncovers using his decoder says "Be sure to drink your" this	Ovaltine.

Since 1970 the number of U.S.

men aged 25-34 still living here has increased from 10% to 15%	at home.

In 1938 DuPont made toothbrushes, not stockings, its first product with this material	nylon.

Ex-welterweight champ Carlos, or a golden-coated, silver-maned horse	a palomino.

Though never a Bee Gee, this other brother had 3 No.

1 singles & hosted "Solid Gold"	Andy Gibb.

A bird of the family Sturnidae, capable of mimicking human speech	a mynah.

On Jan.

20, 2009 a military officer carrying these codes came to the inauguration with Bush & left with Obama	the codes to release nuclear warheads.

Researchers have found more than 40,000 of the dust type of these microscopic bugs in 1 ounce of mattress dust	mites.

In 1936 Los Angeles started receiving its electricity from generators at this facility	Hoover Dam.

In the 17th century this type of wild horse numbered between 2 & 4 mil.; today, only about 20,000 remain, mostly in the West	mustangs.

A skeptic, or one of a Greek sect who espoused that virtue is the only good	a cynic.

1968's Nobel Prize in Medicine was for "interpretation of" this "code and its function in protein synthesis"	the genetic code.

Got this river?  It flows more than 600 miles through Alberta & Montana before entering the Missouri	the Milk.

In 1932 this country finished reclaiming thousands of agricultural acres from the Zuiderzee	the Netherlands.

1 tale says this breed descends from Muhammad's horses that refused water to answer a battle call	Arabians.

The bobcat is also known as the bay this animal	a lynx.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows some characters on the monitor.)  In international Morse code, developed because of the limitations of American Morse code, the "U" is dot dot dash, and a "U" with one of these marks is dot dot dash dash	an umlaut.

A pen with 1,400 diamonds depicting a mountain range was created in 2006 to celebrate this company's 100th anniversary	Montblanc.

In 1939 Edwin Armstrong built the first full-scale station for this type of commercially used radio transmission	FM.

This "stately" horse has 3 gaits; the flat-foot walk, the running walk & the canter	the Tennessee walking horse.

In a Bee Gees hit, this title sort of communication means "you're telling me lies"	jive talkin'.

In music, to place accents on beats that are normally unaccented	syncopated.

Of the traditional 8 parts of speech, it's the only one that doesn't end in the same 4 letters as 1 of the other parts of speech	adjective.

Suisse is the French name for this mountainous country	Switzerland.

Silver	The Lone Ranger.

The first episode in the story told by this popular film series is subtitled "The Phantom Menace"	Star Wars.

When going out, take this card because "It's Everywhere You Want to Be"	Visa.

She married husband Ronnie in 1952 when he was president of the Screen Actors Guild	Nancy (Davis) Reagan.

Dial this 3-digit prime number in L.A.

only for emergencies	911.

Washington Irving gave New York City this nickname in 1807	Gotham.

Rocinante	Don Quixote.

It was double trouble for this martial arts star playing twins in "Twin Dragons"	Jackie Chan.

If you need a hammer, this is "The Place With the Helpful Hardware Folks"	Ace Hardware.

She served as a regent of the University of Texas & as a member of the National Parks Advisory Board	Lady Bird Johnson.

In the rhyme, it's the number of whacks Lizzie Borden gave her father	41.

There are only 31 states & 1 federal district in this North American country	Mexico.

Trigger's friend Buttermilk	Dale Evans.

It was double trouble for this martial arts star playing twins in "Double Impact"	Jean-Claude Van Damme.

"The Relentless Pursuit of Perfection" is the goal of this automaker	Lexus.

In January 1991 this first lady broke her left leg while sledding at Camp David	Barbara Bush.

Columbus' first voyage to the new world ended in this year	1493.

The Tasman Sea separates Australia & this nation	New Zealand.

Traveller	Robert E.

Lee.

Known for comedies like "Mr.

Mom", he donned the cape & cowl of Batman in 1989	Michael Keaton.

This large company provides "Solutions For A Small Planet"	IBM.

Her stepfather was Hugh Auchincloss	Jackie Kennedy.

Fear of this prime number is called triskaidekaphobia	13.

Robin Hood's nemesis was the sheriff of this district	Nottingham.

Bucephalus	Alexander the Great.

She turned pirate in "Cutthroat Island" & action star in "The Long Kiss Goodnight"	Geena Davis.

Relax, this brand of medicine is "Recommended by Dr.

Mom"	Robitussin.

The only first lady whose married name was the same as her maiden name	Eleanor Roosevelt.

Boeing's answer in the early 1960s to the Douglas DC-9; it's good for medium hauls	727.

1992: New Jersey senator	Bill Bradley.

In 1999 Lulu, a plucky potbellied one of these, earned an ASPCA Trooper Award for saving her owner's life	Pig.

He starred on Broadway as Elwood P.

Dowd in a revival of "Harvey"; who else could?	Jimmy Stewart.

To the horror of homeowners, this lawn weed, taraxacum officinale, can grow 1 1/2' high	Dandelion.

This tragedy has got to be set in a small village, hence the title	Hamlet.

Derived from the Greek for "ice", it's a glass of fine quality that resembles ice	Crystal.

1984: New York governor	Mario Cuomo.

An ASPCA program begun in 1992 promotes the adoption of these dogs when they retire from racing	Greyhounds.

Based on "All About Eve", it featured Lauren Bacall as Margo Channing	Applause.

This "kissing" shrub, the state flower of Oklahoma, sometimes kills the tree that serves as its host	Mistletoe.

Obviously, it's a funny play about bad baseball players	The Comedy of Errors.

Many scholars believe that the Celts called it "The Wild Place"; now this wild place is a city of over 7 million	London.

1976: Ohio senator	John Glenn.

The ASPCA reminds you that you can lengthen a cat's life by neutering a male or doing this equivalent to a female	Spaying.

Though he never won an Emmy as Barney Miller, he did win a Tony for his role in "The Rothschilds"	Hal Linden.

The Jaffa variety of orange originated in this country	Israel.

It sounds to me like it's about the leader of lascivious oglers	King Lear.

A Middle Eastern chieftain, this 4-letter term is from the Arabic for "commander"	Emir.

1968: Hawaiian senator	Daniel Inouye.

In 1867 the ASPCA began operating the world's first of these vehicles to carry horses, probably without a siren	Ambulance.

Anthony Quayle & Keith Baxter starred in this Anthony Shaffer mystery; the rest of the cast is another mystery	Sleuth.

The jonquil is a short-trumpet narcissus; this yellow flower is a long-trumpet species	Daffodil.

It's about this guy who hires non-permanent secretarial help for his office	The Tempest.

This wooden club is named for the town in county Wicklow where it originated	Shillelagh.

1988: Texas state treasurer	Ann Richards.

The ASPCA helped stop Iowa legislators from legalizing hunting of the mourning type of this	Dove.

After 2,844 performances, Broadway said, "So long, dearie" to this musical December 27, 1970	Hello, Dolly!.

The finest dried form of this root spice used in pumpkin pie is produced in Jamaica	Ginger.

Toyotas!  Yeah, that's it; it's about Toyotas	Troilus & Cressida.

A Greek word for cowherd has given us this term for "pastoral" or "rustic"	bucolic.

Debuting November 18, 1985, the caption in its first box was "So long, Pop!  I'm off to check my tiger trap!"	Calvin and Hobbes.

Its nicknames include "The Athens of America" & "The Cradle of Liberty"	Boston.

Who was No.

50?  This Who guitarist, that's who	Pete Townshend.

Lenin got a degree in this in 1891, then went on to court a lot of trouble	law.

In 2001 Sweden & the U.S.

honored this award's 100th anniversary with a set of postage stamps	the Nobel Prize.

As the old saying goes, "An ounce of" this magazine "is worth a pound of cure"	Prevention.

A "green" government group: EPA	Environmental Protection Agency.

When Oregon became a state in 1859, this city on the Willamette River was already the capital	Salem.

Not surprisingly this legendary guitarist who colored the '60s with songs like "Purple Haze" came in at No.

1	Jimi Hendrix.

Lenin met his wife Nadezhda while exiled here	Siberia.

Select Comfort Corporation makes these with adjustable firmness	mattresses.

In Nov.

2003 Judge Ira Gammerman said neither side would get damages from the demise of this celeb's magazine	Rosie O'Donnell.

High-ranking business operative: CFO	chief financial officer.

Benjamin Franklin Parkway & The Franklin Institute Science Museum are in this city	Philadelphia.

It's said of No.

3, "His string-bending & vibrato made his famous guitar, Lucille, weep like a real-life woman"	B.B.

King.

When Russian Marxism split into 2 factions, Lenin led this "majority" group	the Bolsheviks.

On an NHL rink, it's the color of the center line	red.

For its Dec.

2003 issue, the U.S.

Marie Claire put its first man on its cover, this star of "The Last Samurai"	Tom Cruise.

An international alliance: EU	the European Union.

According to a song by Ian Hunter, it "Rocks" (must be why the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame is there)	Cleveland.

His "Smooth" guitar strains earned him a place at No.

15	Carlos Santana.

Lenin spent WWI in this country, but he was far from neutral on the subject	Switzerland.

In 2003 a nationwide Free Slurpee Day was on this date	11-Jul.

In titles, this word follows Southern, Country & Martha Stewart	Living.

On an accountant's calendar: FY	fiscal year.

Located in this city's Garden District, Commander's Palace features a jazz brunch on weekends	New Orleans.

Surprisingly, only 2 women made the list: Joni Mitchell & this leader of the Blackhearts	Joan Jett.

When Lenin returned to Russia in 1917, he did it in a "sealed" one of these	railway car.

This flower got its name from the belief that bees got a sweet substance out of it	honeysuckle.

Marilyn Vos Savant's column appears in this magazine that comes with Sunday newspapers	Parade Magazine.

Sometimes you get extras with one of these: DVD	digital video disc.

This "Howl" poet's father was also a poet & the 2 would perform public readings together	Allen Ginsberg.

Bruce Jenner & Ray Leonard were American Olympic champs in this red, white & blue year	1976.

His 1959 film "The Golden Fish" won him an Oscar	(Jacques) Cousteau.

Its 1-shekel coin features a flower taken from a Judean coin during the Persian period	Israel.

A Pseudofolliculitis barbae is an "ingrown" one of these	a hair.

Manner assumed by good doctors	bedside manner.

In 1953 his Norton Lectures at Harvard were published as "i: six nonlectures"	(E.E.) Cummings.

It was the year of Babe Ruth's career high in home runs	1927.

In 1995 he succeeded Francois Mitterand	Jacques Chirac.

In 1999 the Cook Islands issued a half dollar coin featuring this Jim Davis comic strip title character	Garfield.

Adding these charged particles to the air is supposed to reduce blood pressure & relieve headaches	negative ions.

You can get an 18-pound collection of every one of these Gary Larson cartoons	"The Far Side".

She considered publishing "Sonnets from the Portuguese" as "Sonnets Translated from the Bosnian"	Elizabeth (Barrett) Browning.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew at Indianapolis Speedway)  The Noc-Out Hose Clamp Special was the winning car at Indianapolis in this year; the race was cancelled the next 4 years	1941.

Much of France's 16th century Canadian claim was based on his explorations	(Jacques) Cartier.

In 1999 it issued its 1-oz.

silver kookaburra coin with honor marks reproducing several U.S.

state quarters	Australia.

Symbolized Ba, this element is put in your body, one way or another, to be seen on X-rays	barium.

A trial judge may call this conference with the attorneys, out of the jury's hearing	sidebar.

After his death in 1821, a fellow poet wrote that he was fragile & was "killed off by one critique"	(John) Keats.

In this, his final year, Ted Williams became one of the few major leaguers to play in 4 decades	1960.

He painted the death of Marat & he himself died in exile in Brussels	Jacques-Louis David.

All of Ireland's coins feature this musical instrument on one side	the harp.

Yes, she developed a scoring system in 1952 to aid in determining a newborn's health	Virginia Apgar.

Economists also know it as Reaganomics	supply-side economics.

In 1857 this "Old Ironsides" poet & others founded the Atlantic Monthly	Oliver Wendell Holmes.

Super Bowl XXXVIII was in 2004; this was the year of Super Bowl I	1967.

He composed both "The Tales of Hoffmann" & that scandalous "Cancan" music	(Jacques) Offenbach.

In 2001 Russia issued a coin with his portrait to commemorate the 40th anniversary of manned space flight	Yuri Gagarin.

Nitroglycerin is an example of this type of drug that widens blood vessels	vasodilator.

Show that includes "Comedy Tonight", "Company" & "Send in the Clowns"	Side by Side.

He made his debut in the 1945 short film "Life with Feathers"	Sylvester.

Because of the way it was formed, Louisiana is sometimes called "The Child of" this river	Mississippi.

He played Tony Starr in "Copacabana", which was based on his own hit record	Barry Manilow.

Many churches have a cruciform plan, which means they're shaped like one of these	Cross.

"Two Little Confederates" is the story of two children who live on a plantation during this war	Civil War.

It's a slang term for a psychiatrist, even if he's not getting smaller	Shrink.

Charles Schulz said Snoopy didn't become a lead character until he began walking this way	on two feet.

It's "The Land of the Saints", the Latter-Day Saints	Utah.

This series grew out of 1971's "The Homecoming:  A Christmas Story"	The Waltons.

A flight is a series of these unbroken by a landing	stairs.

Chapter 4 of this 1908 classic is called "Morning at Green Gables"	Anne of Green Gables.

If you lack good fortune, you're out of this	Luck.

It's a synonym for a lie as well as the type of tale told by Aesop	Fable.

It's "The Mother of States" as well as "The Mother of Presidents"	Virginia.

Arnold Schwarzenegger played Mickey Hargitay in a TV movie about this actress	Jayne Mansfield.

One of these ancient Roman structures still carries the water supply of Segovia, Spain	Aqueduct.

In a Grimm fairy tale one of these animals swallows six little kids, but luckily they escape	Wolf.

A snide, simpering, self-satisfied smile	Smirk.

Any Brit can tell you that a Liverpudlian is one of these	Someone from Liverpool.

It's "The Plantation State" because its full name includes the words "And Providence Plantations"	Rhode Island.

The 1974 autobiography of this woman won 9 Emmy Awards, 2 for Cicely Tyson	The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman.

In north Africa, these towers from which Muslims are called to prayer are rectangular in plan	Minarets.

This Anna Sewell book may have inspired "Moorland Mousie", which was also narrated by a horse	Black Beauty.

A soda server, whether or not he's fatuous	Jerk.

Persil is the French word for this ever-popular garnish	Parsley.

It's also known as "The Toothpick State" because of a knife used by early settlers	Arkansas.

She played Francine Hughes, who was accused of murdering her husband, in "The Burning Bed"	Farrah Fawcett.

Gropius, Mies van der Rohe & this Swiss architect all worked for architect Peter Behrens	Le Corbusier.

The first line of the early 19th century nursery rhyme whose original title was "The Star"	"Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star".

This Asian capital city known for its canals has been called "The Venice of the East"	Bangkok.

The national conference of these two religious groups sponsors Brotherhood-Sisterhood Week	Christians and Jews.

Speaking in Illinois, Benjamin Harrison said this president "had faith in time & time has justified his faith"	Abraham Lincoln.

Alpha Delta Pi Sandra Palmer is known for puttering around in this sport	Golf.

This play begins as Willy Loman returns home from a trip	Death of a Salesman.

This dominion was created by the British North America Act on July 1, 1867	Canada.

Luke 2:7 reports that there was no room at the inn for this pair	Mary & Joseph.

In 1877 Henry Seymour read about this religious group in an encyclopedia & named his oat company for them	Quakers.

Sammy Cahn wrote new lyrics for "High Hopes" & it became this man's 1960 campaign song	John F.

Kennedy.

This Kappa Delta artist settled in New Mexico in 1949 because of the earth colors, the ochres & the reds	Georgia O'Keeffe.

In Clifford Odets' "Golden Boy", Joe Bonaparte gives up the violin for this sport	Boxing.

On May 9, 1946 this country's King Victor Emmanuel abdicated in favor of his son Umberto	Italy.

The Chaucer Inn is located near the cathedral in this English city	Canterbury.

This phrase refers to indulging in youthful excesses	Sowing one's oats.

It was the middle name of President Wilson & of his daughter Jessie	Woodrow.

Kappa Alpha Theta who danced in her own ballets including "Rodeo"	Agnes de Mille.

Her 1946 play "Another Part of the Forest" is sometimes considered a prequel to "The Little Foxes"	Lillian Hellman.

In 1763, as a result of this numerical war, Florida became a British possession	Seven Years' War.

It was the first hotel Howard Hughes bought in Las Vegas	Desert Inn.

It's a thick, pudding-like oatmeal dish that's enjoyed by Scots & by Goldilocks	Porridge.

Teddy Roosevelt sponsored the candidacy of this man in 1908 & ran against him in 1912	William Howard Taft.

When she began her financial column, this Phi Sigma Sigma used her initials to disguise her sex	Sylvia Porter.

A brother & sister argue over the fate of a piano in this Pulitzer-winning play by August Wilson	The Piano Lesson.

In 1864 Austria & Prussia went to war with Denmark, winning Schleswig & this duchy	Holstein.

Gray's Inn is one of these associations that control admission to Britain's bar	the Inns of Court.

Cereal lovers know it's the high-in-fiber outer casing of the oat	Bran.

The first president who wasn't born a British subject was this New Yorker	Martin Van Buren.

This Sigma Kappa is remembered as one of the first senators to speak out against Joseph McCarthy	Margaret Chase Smith.

This lengthy work by Eugene O'Neill is based partly on the Oresteia of Aeschylus	Mourning Becomes Electra.

In 1832 Otto, a Bavarian prince, was named the first king of this Balkan country	Greece.

This 1936 Daphne du Maurier novel is one of her Cornish tales	Jamaica Inn.

While the terms are used interchangeably, groats are usually more coarsely ground than these	Grits.

The name of this dialect comes from a Hindi word, mantri, meaning "counselor"	Mandarin.

Of the 6 nations India borders, this one is the most populous	China.

It's "finger lickin' good!"	Kentucky Fried Chicken.

Prep & line are types of this 4-letter job	cook (or chef).

In 336 B.C.

at age 20, he succeeded his murdered father as Macedonia's king & was just super...wait, that's not the right word	Alexander the Great.

Last name of Kevin, Joe & Nick, whose album "Lines, Vines And Trying Times" debuted at No.

1 in 2009	Jonas.

On TV, apparently both America & Britain's "Got" this, a special natural ability	talent.

The disputed ownership of the Kashmir region is a sore spot between India & this smaller neighbor	Pakistan.

"When it absolutely, positively has to be there overnight"	FedEx.

Of chairs, chicken or chinos, what you're most likely to haul if you drive a reefer truck	chicken.

In 1696 this Russian czar conquered the Ottoman port of Azov on the Black Sea; awesome!  Again the wrong word	Peter the Great.

Originally formed as a trio in Gary, Indiana in 1963, these singing siblings gained fame as a quintet	the Jacksons.

It gains you admission to the ballgame; Yeah, that's the...	ticket.

On its extreme east, India borders this nation that changed its name following a coup in 1989	Myanmar (or Burma).

"Is it live or is it" this?	Memorex.

Broadly used, this term can include nurses & therapists, but it often refers just to emergency personnel	paramedics.

In 1905 Haakon VII was chosen king by the people & parliament of this country after its separation from Sweden	Norway.

Twin brothers Matthew & Gunnar, Ozzie & Harriet's grandsons, had hits in the '90s under this name	Nelson.

Proverbially, you can have one of these "in a teacup"	a tempest.

The Ganges River flows through India into this neighbor, where it reaches the Bay Of Bengal	Bangladesh.

"The ultimate driving machine"	BMW.

A pro sports broadcasting duo consists of a play-by-play announcer & the analyst called this man	a color commentator.

George I, king of this country from 1863 to 1913, supported a movement to revive the Olympics, abolished in 393	Greece.

2 motorcycle accidents, a year apart & 3 blocks from each other, claimed 2 lives of this "Ramblin' Man" band	the Allman Brothers.

Elephants call each other with this instrument (but not literally, except maybe at Ringling Bros.)	a trumpet.

This nation to India's north is also the only other nation with a Hindu population of  more than 80%	Nepal.

"Solutions for a small planet"	IBM.

Someone employed in rousting game so it can be shot; he doesn't necessarily go "around the bush"	a beater.

The heroic 480 B.C.

death of this king of Sparta at Thermopylae made him famous; c'mon, one of you saw "300", right?	Leonidas.

The Dust Brothers produced this sibling band's "Middle Of Nowhere" which featured "MMMBop"	Hanson.

Also meaning "touch", it's a keen sense of what to say to avoid giving offense	tact.

In this 1866 Dostoevsky novel, a student named Raskolnikov murders an old woman pawnbroker & her sister	Crime and Punishment.

Daniel Day-Lewis starred in this 2008 Oscar-winning adaptation of an Upton Sinclair novel	There Will Be Blood.

Steven Callahan drifted for 76 days & 1,800 miles on one of these he called Rubber Ducky III	an inflatable raft.

Jamb, hinge	a door.

Nobelist George Thomson is the son of J.J.

Thomson, a Nobel Prize winner who discovered this negative particle	electron.

From the disciple who betrayed Jesus, it's one who betrays a friend for some reward	a Judas.

By 1890 this author & playwright had written hundreds of short stories, including "The Steppe"	Chekhov.

Leonardo DiCaprio's African jewel smuggler gains a conscience in this film	Blood Diamond.

Capsized off Georges Bank, Ernie Hazard survived 2 days in his underwear in this ocean	Atlantic Ocean.

Cheek strap, snaffle rein	horse tack.

Ulf von Euler won in 1970; dad Hans von Euler-Chelpin won for his work on the role of enzymes in this process in sugar	fermentation.

This religious sect living primarily in Ohio & southeast Pennsylvania gets its name from a 17th century Swiss Mennonite bishop	the Amish.

Wounded in World War I, Yuri Zhivago is nursed back to health by this woman who was to become his mistress	Lara.

Sylvester Stallone played Vietnam vet John Rambo in this 1982 film	First Blood.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  Richard Van Pham, who originally set sail from Long Beach, heading for Catalina got blown just a bit off course, & after four months, ended up near this country	Costa Rica.

1 coiled shell, 1 foot	a snail.

In 1915 William H, & William L.

Bragg shared the prize for their analysis of the structure of crystals via this type of image	x-ray.

This screw with a cross-slotted head (& the needed screwdriver) was invented by a Portland man in 1936	Phillips.

Lev Rubin in this Soviet dissident's "The First Circle" was based on 1960s Russian civil rights figure Lev Kopelev	Solzhenitsyn.

The Coen brothers debuted with this murderous Texas noir tale	Blood Simple.

This "ancient mariner" bird is the title of Deborah Scaling Kiley's "True Story Of A Woman's Survival At Sea"	an albatross.

Mercury bulb, scale	a thermometer.

Last name of father & son Niels & Aage, who both won the Nobel Prize in Physics; Aage was born the year his dad won	Bohr.

The name of this Trojan prince who was killed by Achilles is now used as a verb meaning to bully	Hector.

This "Taras Bulba" author wrote his masterpiece "Dead Souls" while living in Rome	(Nikolay) Gogol.

Movie in which Jean-Claude Van Damme wins a secret martial arts tournament	Bloodsport.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  Better at navigating than handling subordinates, he was put adrift in a 20-foot boat in 1789 & sailed 3,600 miles from near Tonga to Timor	Captain Bligh.

Balk line spot, center pocket	a pool table.

Arthur Kornberg won for showing how DNA duplicates in bacteria; son Roger's work was on the conversion of DNA into this	RNA.

Inventor & shirtmaker S.L.

Cluett's first name gives us this process for minimizing fabric shrinkage	Sanforizing.

Frank Sinatra came out of retirement to sing their praises: "they're both unique...

the Quaker & the Greek"	Richard Nixon & Spiro Agnew.

In 1429, she was given control of troops in France	Joan of Arc.

"Stargate" star who's Goldie Hawn's longtime companion	Kurt Russell.

Sasquatch	Bigfoot.

The Menninger Clinic founded in this capital owns a collection of Sigmund Freud's papers	Topeka.

Bad guys should stay out of harm's way (that's Cmdr.

Harmon Rabb's way) on this military-legal series	JAG.

To prepare for war, "dig up" this ax; when you've made peace, you bury it again	the hatchet.

Using photos he had taken the month before, Clyde Tombaugh discovered this planet February 18, 1930	Pluto.

He's the hip hop mogul seen here	Russell Simmons.

It's found in the Parliament Tower of Westminster Palace	Big Ben.

In the 1960s this largest Kansas city became the world's largest producer of general aviation aircraft	Wichita.

(Hi, I'm Dana Delany.) Appropriately, the final episode of this TV series on which I starred featured a visit to the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial	China Beach.

To fight with the fists, "put up" these noblemen	your dukes.

In February 1984 he announced his resignation as Prime Minister of Canada	Trudeau.

On Nov.

7, 1959 he grabbed 35 rebounds in his first showdown with Wilt Chamberlain	Bill Russell.

A 2000 Martin Lawrence film	Big Momma's House.

As you might expect, Ulysses is the seat of this "Presidential" county	Grant.

This future star of "The Love Boat" earned his sea legs playing "Happy" Haines on "McHale's Navy"	Gavin McLeod.

"Colorful" verb for what's been done when you've been soundly thrashed	tanned.

Every president since Taft has been an honorary president of this organization founded in the U.S.

in Feb.

1910	the Boy Scouts.

Full-figured actress seen here in a 1940's publicity still	Jane Russell.

This cosmology theory's name came from Fred Hoyle's joke about it	Big Bang.

This college town has been called the "Little Apple"	Manhattan.

On a '50s series, this German Shepherd & his master, Rusty, were adopted by cavalry soldiers at Fort Apache	Rin Tin Tin.

Shopkeepers aren't meeting when "introducing the shoemaker to the tailor" -- you've just done this to someone's rear	kicked it.

In a 1778 treaty, the U.S.

and France granted each other this commerce "status"	most favored nation.

Republican John McCain and this Wisconsin Democrat co-sponsored a campaign finance reform bill	Russ Feingold.

Empire Toys' trikes for tykes	Big Wheels.

This oldest of the Wayans Brothers co-starred with Yaphet Kotto on the 1983 drama series "For Love and Honor"	Keenan Ivory Wayans.

"Rock The Casbah" is the biggest hit by this rock group	The Clash.

This object from Arthurian & Christian legend has come to mean the object of any difficult quest	the Holy Grail.

Alpinism is European climbing; Andinismo refersto climbing on this continent	South America.

In the 3rd century B.C., this "Father of geometry" taught at the Museum, an institute in Alexandria, Egypt	Euclid.

"Mister Roberts", "She Wore a Yellow Ribbon", "Stagecoach"	(John) Ford.

In the 7th century Isidore was bishop of this city, not barber of it	Seville.

Mildew, mold or a mushroom	fungus.

A type of nonsexual love is named for this Greek philosopher who discussed it in his "Symposium"	platonic (or Plato).

Face and crack climbing are two types of this popular activity seen here	rock climbing.

A straight angle has this many degrees	180.

"The Milagro Beanfield War", "Quiz Show", "The Legend of Bagger Vance"	Robert Redford.

Saint Augustine's mom, she's also a saint, as well as an L.A.

boulevard that Sheryl Crow sang about	Santa Monica.

It's a summary or outline given to college students that covers the course of study	syllabus.

This term for an idyllic place can be checked out in the James Hilton work "Lost Horizon"	Shangri-La.

In "Vertical Limit" Robin Tunney is menaced by this high-altitude condition of fluid leaking into the lungs	pulmonary edema.

The sum of the squares of the lengths of the legs of a right triangle is equal to the square of the length of this	the hypotenuse.

"Hobson's Choice", "Oliver Twist", "Lawrence of Arabia"	David Lean.

In 1918 padre Pio, who reportedly could levitate, became the first priest in centuries to receive these "wounds"	stigmata.

It's the zodiac sign whose symbol is seen here	Sagittarius.

Jonathan Swift created Lilliputians; this author created Munchkins	(Frank) Baum.

This fastener seen here gets its name from its original use of clipping a carbine rifle to a band	carabiner.

The word geometry means to "measure" this	the world, the earth (the land).

"Z", "State of Siege", "Missing"	Costa-Gavras.

During his reign St.

Pius X revised this Latin version of the Bible	St.

Jerome's or the Vulgate.

Bridges over this strait connect Asia to Europe	Bosphorus.

"The shot heard round the world" was first heard in this man's "Concord Hymn"	Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Also meaning to stop an action, in climbing it means to secure another person with a rope	to belay.

To make this figure, put a looped string around 2 tacks, place a pencil tight against the string & draw	an ellipse.

"Woman with a Past", "The Peacemaker", "Deep Impact"	Mimi Leder.

Saint Fursey's visions were recorded by this venerable saint	Bede.

He killed the minotaur	Theseus.

Its roof has been variously described as sails, clam shells & a huddle of nuns in a high wind	the Sydney Opera House.

Referring to the attack on Pearl Harbor, FDR called December 7, 1941 "A date which will" do this	"Live in Infamy".

Named for its Brooklyn-born host, this "live" interview show debuted on CNN in June 1985	"Larry King Live".

In terms of enrollment LSU's largest campus is in this capital city	Baton Rouge.

The company would have been called Indiana Fried Chicken if it were named for the birthplace of this founder	Col.

Harland Sanders.

White smoke rising from the Vatican announces the election of a new one of these	Pope.

The stage show seen here has brought this dance to cheering audiences	Tango.

FDR gave the first of these talks March 12, 1933 from the White House diplomatic reception room	Fireside Chats.

He & Robert Novak have worked together since 1963 & now co-anchor a CNN discussion program	Rowland Evans.

9 years after leaving LSU she won an Oscar for "The Three Faces of Eve"	Joanne Woodward.

The formula using this many herbs & spices is locked in a safe in Louisville	11.

It's the animal name of the device I'm using here TO ANNOUNCE THE CLUE	Bullhorn.

A song in this Disney musical asks, "How long must this go on?" ---4 years & counting	Beauty And The Beast.

While attending this school, FDR was editor of its newspaper, The Crimson	Harvard.

It's the territory where the ceremony seen here took place on the night of June 30 - July 1, 1997	Hong Kong.

This basketball star nicknamed "Pistol Pete" went to LSU where his dad "Press" was coach	Pete Maravich.

General Tao was smiling in 1987 when KFC became the first U.S.

fast-food chain in this country	China.

When the national votes are tallied, the 43rd one of these will be announced November 7, 2000	President of the United States.

3-letter word that's the title of Yasmina Reza's hit play about an all-white painting	Art.

FDR was born & is now buried in this town on the Hudson River	Hyde Park.

In 1997 CNN became the first U.S.

news organization since 1969 with a permanent bureau in this country	Cuba.

This civil "War is Hell" general was president of the seminary & military academy that became LSU	William Tecumseh Sherman.

The conglomerate built on this soda decided everybody needs a little KFC & bought it in 1986	Pepsi Cola.

Warnings of these "floods" are announced by the N.W.S.

when large amounts of rain fall in a short amount of time	Flash flood.

This musical opened its run in 1980 at the Winter Garden, 8 blocks from the title thoroughfare	42nd Street.

During this 1932 campaign, FDR relied on a trusted group of advisers dubbed this --- pretty smart	Brain Trust.

Anchored by Lou Dobbs, it was TV's first nightly business newscast	"Moneyline".

"All The King's Men" know this first poet laureate of the U.S.

was editor of LSU's Southern Review	Robert Penn Warren.

KFC introduced this menu item by building a 20,000-lb.

one, unveiled with dancing carrots & peas	Chicken pot pie.

A teary-eyed person, or the announcer of the latest village news	Crier.

Tony-winning Tony who drew big crowds with his epic play "Angels In America"	Tony Kushner.

The Green Mountains of Vermont & the White Mountains of New Hampshire are part of this mountain system	Appalachians.

The CIA's main rival for much of its existence was this Soviet counterpart	KGB.

A myocardial infarction, better known as this, is a common reason for ICU admission	Heart attack.

In a 1976 Playboy interview, Jimmy Carter said he'd committed this in his heart many times	Adultery.

Most felines have 30 of these (including the canines)	Teeth.

The discovery of the Comstock Lode in 1859 attracted miners & prospectors to this state	Nevada.

Advanced CIA methods have included use of this high altitude aircraft; one was shot down May 1, 1960	U-2.

3-letter abbreviation for the ICU machine seen here	EKG (Electrocardiogram).

Ring in & tell me this correct name for a young swan	Cygnet.

When a lioness & one of these mate, they produce a leopon	Leopard.

The name of this New Mexico city where the first atomic bomb was exploded is Spanish for "big cottonwood"	Alamogordo.

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE): "(Hi, I'm Kareem Abdul-Jabbar)  The first and last of my 1,815 NBA games were both against this team known as the "Bad Boys" of the league"	Detroit Pistons.

He's the only CIA head who went on to become president	George Herbert Walker Bush.

It comes from the Greek meaning "deep sleep", but it's deeper than that	Coma.

They're the 2 words describing lenses that curve outward or inward	Concave & convex.

In Chinese lore this big cat, not the lion, was king of the beasts	Tiger.

At an altitude of about 10,200 feet, this Colorado city is the highest incorporated city in the USA	Leadville.

For 9 straight seasons, ending in '96, this Utah Jazz player led the NBA in average assists per game	John Stockton.

Much of the intelligence evaluation & planning is done at the CIA's HQ in this Virginia locale	Langley.

A neonatal ICU may contain several isolettes, a type of this chamber	Incubator.

From 1672 to 1858 this city was the headquarters of the British East India Company	Bombay.

Like MGM's Leo the Lion, if you can do this you're considered one of the "big cats"	Roar.

This river forms most of the boundary between Georgia & South Carolina	Savannah River.

Located in the "Rose City", this team's home court is appropriately called the Rose Garden	Portland Trail Blazers.

Founded in 1947, the CIA grew out of WWII's OSS, which stood for this	Office of Strategic Services.

Intensive care is also called this "care", like the condition patients may be in	Critical.

The name of this German publisher has become synonymous  with a guidebook	Karl Baedeker.

The name of this striped color pattern may come from a market in Baghdad famous for 2-tone silk	Tabby.

He made the cover of Life magazine 3 times in February & March of 1962, & again in October 1998	John Glenn.

Chapter 13 of this classic novel is called "Another View of Hester"	The Scarlet Letter.

A total of 22 means you've gone "bust" in this card game	blackjack.

It's the landmark seen here in typical fog	the Golden Gate Bridge.

The American Heritage Dictionary calls this pronoun the most famous feature of Southern dialects	y'all.

Knothead & Splinter are the nephew & niece of this cartoon bird produced by Walter Lantz	Woody Woodpecker.

"Family" man Don Vito Corleone	The Godfather.

He published the first 4 of his fairy tales in an 1835 pamphlet; "The Tinder Box" was among them	Hans Christian Andersen.

It's the most expensive property in the U.S.

version of Monopoly	Boardwalk.

If you're nosing around the landmark seen here, we knows you knows you're in this state	South Dakota.

A state capital since 1849, it showed Southern hospitality in 2005 as its population grew by 50% after Katrina	Baton Rouge.

1969 rock festival site	Woodstock.

Terry Malloy, who could've been a contender	On the Waterfront.

Nicodemus Frapp is a narrow-minded evangelist in "Tono-Bungay", a 1909 novel by this author of "The Time Machine"	H.G.

Wells.

On a basic playing board in this matching game, the numbers range from B-1 to O-75	bingo.

Oddly, Olivier & Handel lie in this area of Westminster Abbey, along with Browning & Tennyson	Poets' Corner.

The Mississippi's oldest operating steamboat is this type of Southern lady "of Louisville"	the Belle.

A heavyset rodent common in northern North America	a woodchuck.

Blanche's brother-in-law Stanley	A Streetcar Named Desire.

This author of "The Good Earth" based the heroine of her 1938 novel "This Proud Heart" on herself	Pearl Buck.

"Acey Deucey" is a variation of this board game that was introduced to Europe by the Arabs	backgammon.

Dating back to the 16th century, it's his namesake cathedral seen here	Saint Basil.

The name of a popular Southern liquor brand, it's also the state game bird of Alabama	Wild Turkey.

On an orchestral score, the music for this instrument group is at the top	woodwinds.

Col.

Kurtz, who lives in the heart of darkness	Apocalypse Now.

In Wonderland, Alice comes across a large one of these with a snooty caterpillar atop it	a mushroom.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew uses sticks to toss a hoop back and forth with Kelly at Old World Wisconsin.) The 19th-century game we're playing got this name, because it taught players to have these; you might be in somebody's good ones	graces.

The 630-foot-high landmark seen here was designed by this European architect	Eero Saarinen.

Scenic traces include one along Lake Pontchartrain & a 500-mile one from Nashville to this city	Natchez.

He's the Washington journalist & "Jeopardy!" stalwart seen here	Bob Woodward.

Johnny, leader of the Black Rebels	The Wild One.

On March 10, 1876 he spoke by telephone to Thomas Watson	Alexander Graham Bell.

Phil Collins, Ted Nugent & The Fat Boys hit the Sunshine State on this '80s cop show	Miami Vice.

A 1912 gift from Japan, the Yoshino species of this tree is found in great abundance by the Jefferson Memorial	cherry trees.

A hilarious bee product	funny honey.

20 paintings by this man, including the one seen here, were stolen briefly from the Stedelijk Museum in 1991	Van Gogh.

Cryst & Krispo were potential names for this brand of shortening	Crisco.

Nationalists from this Commonwealth attacked the U.S.

Capitol March 1, 1954, injuring 5 representatives	Puerto Rico.

Legendary singer Eartha Kitt was just purr-fect as this "Batman" villainess	Catwoman.

In 1963 Louisiana chose this "bald" tree native to the swamps & wetlands as its state tree	the cypress.

A thin pancake with a Concord fruit filling	a grape crpe.

This Spaniard's portrait of the Duke of Wellington was stolen from the U.K.

in 1961	Goya.

George Blaisdell invented this lighter in 1932	the Zippo.

On March 29, 2004 Latvia & 6 other ex-Communist nations joined this organization	NATO.

This country star became a sitcom grandma at the end of her first season on the WB	Reba McEntire.

(Jon of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from the World Forestry Center in Oregon.)  The familiar North American broad-leafed trees are mainly this type, from the Latin for "falling off"	deciduous.

A malt beverage like O'Doul's with little or no alcohol	near beer.

$300 million worth of art was stolen from the Gardener Museum including the only marine painting by this Dutchman	Rembrandt.

Fido knows that Robert Hunsicker created this dog food brand	Alpo.

On March 10, 1629 this king dissolved Parliament, leading to his eventual downfall & demise	Charles I.

Going from Salt-N-Pepa to Dr.

Pepa, the musician was in the house counseling Janice Dickinson on this VH1 reality show	The Surreal Life.

This shrub produces clusters appropriately called catkins said to resemble kittens climbing up the twig	a pussy willow.

An acrid-tasting deep-fried cake full of corn or crab	a bitter fritter.

NYC's largest art theft happened in 1988 & saw the loss of 2 of this Renaissance friar's masterpieces	Fra Angelico.

Models of this car brand include the Metro & the Storm	Geo.

In March 1967 Robert Kennedy came up with a nifty Vietnam peace plan, but this Secretary of State rejected it	Dean Rusk.

Hey, now!  Elvis Costello sold Hank Kingsley a lemon of a sports car on this HBO comedy	The Larry Sanders Show.

This shrub whose name is from Greek for "rose tree" is among the many plants growing on Himalayan slopes	the rhododendron.

An ever so tiny piece of the hepatic organ	a liver sliver.

The august painting seen here by this Frenchman was stolen from Paris, along with 8 others, in 1985	(Pierre-Auguste) Renoir.

You'll go really fast in this swimwear brand worn by Olympic gold medalists	Speedo.

This play ends with 1 character asking, "Well?  Shall we go?"; the other replies, "Yes, let's go", but they do not move	Waiting for Godot.

This continent is the largest in area	Asia.

You might have to get as high as 20 feet off the ground to win a medal in this "vaulting" Olympic event	the pole vault.

The gravitational pull of this object is the main force holding the solar system together	the sun.

History: Study up on this ship that anchored in Plymouth Harbor on Dec.

26, 1620	the Mayflower.

On July 8, 1776 it was rung to proclaim the first public reading of the Declaration of Independence	the Liberty Bell.

Capable, succeed, accomplish	capable.

Early explorers called parts of this continent Vinland	North America.

At 26.2 miles, it's the longest running event in the Summer Olympics	the marathon.

Galileo was the first person to see the rings around this planet	Saturn.

Home ec.: Make this breakfast dish of battered & fried bread, called pain perdu in France	French toast.

Suffragettes were women who wanted the right to do this (& got to with the 19th Amendement)	vote.

Paint, brush, easel	easel.

This continent has a lot of marsupials, like the native wombat	Australia.

In the Olympic 400-meter relay final, this many runners compete together as a team	4.

Not the first but this second planet is the hottest, because its atmosphere causes a severe greenhouse effect	Venus.

Spanish: You'll have to use your cabeza, this body part, to pass the class	your head.

Check out exotic marine life at one of these, like the National one in Baltimore	an aquarium.

Wind, wander, wonderful	wonderful.

This continent has the longest mountain chain	South America.

Throwing events include this one, the hurling of a spearlike shaft	the javelin.

It was last seen in the skies in 1986 & won't return until 2061	Halley's Comet.

Math: (Cheryl of the Clue Crew shows two hexagons on the monitor.)  A polygon may be considered convex, or this, meaning "having at least 1 interior angle greater than 180 degrees"	concave.

Tulsa's newspaper is called The World; Boston's is named for this object that depicts the world	a globe.

Salt, pepper, sage	sage.

In 1957 countries on this continent signed a treaty creating an economic community, or common market	Europe.

In 2004 the USA's Bryan Clay, with 8,820 points, took the silver in this 10-event contest	the decathlon.

Science: Discover animal anatomy, starting with Ursidae, this animal family	the bear family.

The name of this Texas city is Spanish for "yellow"	Amarillo.

Candor, center, canter	candor.

There's no truth to the story that she had to pawn her jewels to finance Columbus' first voyage	Queen Isabella.

5-letter word for a group that sings exalting music, like the Bulgarian women's one heard in "Brother Bear"	choir.

"We looked!  Then we saw him step in on the mat!  We looked!  And we saw him!"  This famous cat	the Cat in the Hat.

Several different islands choose their own kings & queens as part of this state's Aloha festivals	Hawaii.

Ceramics is the art of making objects, even dreidels, out of this material	clay.

Chinese or Malay: This tomato condiment that's put on French fries	ketchup.

This flagship of Columbus' first voyage was chartered from Juan de la Cosa & was his largest ship	the Santa Maria.

Caetano Veloso & Mr.

Loco are among artists on the soundtrack of this Jack Black wrestling movie	Nacho Libre.

In a fairy tale by this Danish author, the Snow Queen takes little Kay away in her sleigh to her icy palace	Hans Christian Andersen.

Stand clear of the seed-spitting contest at the Hope, Arkansas festival for these huge picnic fruits	watermelons.

Someone tearing the L.A.

Times into strips may be practicing this art form with a hyphenated French name	papier-mch.

Latin: This device you open when it's precipitating	an umbrella.

Christopher Columbus was born in this Italian seaport where his father was a merchant & wool weaver	Genoa.

Julie Andrews sings "A Spoonful Of Sugar" in this movie	Mary Poppins.

In "Little Women", Margaret March is better known by this nickname	"Meg".

Dancers clomp around in wooden shoes at the Holland, Michigan festival honoring this flower	the tulip.

The name of this type of paint that contains egg yolks almost sounds like a Japanese dish, but don't eat it	tempera.

On Oct.

12, 1492 Columbus reached the New World & landed at an island he called this, Spanish for "holy savior"	San Salvador.

In "Raise Your Voice", Hilary Duff sings this Handel oratorio about the Savior	Messiah.

This loving relative who takes care of Tom Sawyer was inspired by Mark Twain's own mother	Aunt Polly.

Stockton, Calif.

doesn't have a festival for Britney Spears, but it does have one for these green spears	asparagus.

One of the only 2 current U.S.

territories visited by Columbus, who reached both in 1493	Puerto Rico (or the Virgin Islands).

She sings "Cry" & "Only Hope" on the soundtrack of her movie "A Walk to Remember"	Mandy Moore.

This author who wrote about "The Princess Who Could Not Laugh" made us smile with "Winnie-the-Pooh"	A.A.

Milne.

He's the only U.S.

president who never lived in the District of Columbia	George Washington.

It's been said that "All roads lead to" this "Eternal City"	Rome.

To eat Chinese food like a native, use 2 of these 10 1/2-inch wooden implements	Chopsticks.

WWII radio propagandist Iva D'Aquino	"Tokyo Rose".

One Big Mac has 560 of these	Calories.

Jazz at Lincoln Center is putting on over 400 events in 1999 in honor of his 100th birthday	Duke Ellington.

Assuming that they lost them all, total number of mittens lost by the kittens	6.

Just 12 degrees south of the Equator, this Peruvian capital's temperatures are moderated by the Humboldt Current	Lima.

The 4 main Chinese types of these strips of dried dough are soup, sauce, stir-fried & shallow-fried	Noodles.

Falsetto ukulele strummer Herbert Khaury	Tiny Tim.

For this lotion mentioned in a Coasters song, think pink	Calamine lotion.

Louisiana politician David Duke was a former grand wizard in this organization	Ku Klux Klan.

Her rhyme winds up with her playing "Pin the Tail on the Sheep"	Little Bo Peep.

Akershus Castle, a tourist site in this capital, sits on a rocky peninsula overlooking a fjord	Oslo.

Some people may have adverse reactions to this Chinese food flavor enhancer that's also called "Mei-Jing"	MSG (Monosodium glutamate).

Astrologer & psychic Michel de Notredame	Nostradamus.

For smokers, it's a pipe with a curved stem & a large bowl made from a gourd	Calabash.

This Brooklyn Dodger was named to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1980	Duke Snider.

Little boys are made of frogs & snails & these, eew...	Puppy dog tails.

This Latvian capital was founded in 1201 by German crusaders	Riga.

Reputedly an aphrodisiac, this expensive soup uses dorsal & pectoral portions of its namesake	Shark fin soup.

The New York Mets' William Hayward Wilson	Mookie Wilson.

Using one of these instruments, a doctor can see just how thick-headed you are:	Calipers.

Famous U.S.

group of museums endowed by the illegitimate son of the Duke of Northumberland	Smithsonian.

The pig that he stole was actually an animal-shaped, currant-filled pastry	Tom (Tom the piper's son).

In 1990 it became the capital of a unified Yemen	Sana.

Meaning "heart's delight", it's a variety of snacks like fried dumplings & steamed buns	Dim sum.

TV pitchman Jim Varney	Ernest P.

Worrell.

Ca is calcium; Cf is this element	Californium.

It was Duke-Duke once again with the April 1999 TV movie reunion of this 1960s series	The Patty Duke Show.

"A man of words and not of" these "is like a garden full of weeds"	Deeds.

This striped mammal reportedly can fire 6 shots of its foul spray before having to "resupply"	Skunk.

In Asia this hollow-stemmed plant is grown in a form to prebend it for use in furniture	Bamboo.

Ingrid Bergman	Stockholm.

A stray bullet ends the life of Eponine in this epic musical (don't "Mis" it!)	"Les Miserables".

Finished around 1000 A.D., "The Pillow Book" of Sei Shonagon is one of this country's literary masterpieces	Japan.

A child holds this toy by the stick & lets the wind do the spinning	Pinwheel.

Some members of the genus Aedes of this insect transmit yellow fever	Mosquito.

A removable section of a tabletop; when it's hinged, it's a "drop"	Leaf.

Niels Bohr	Copenhagen.

This "demon barber" had his victims baked into pies (no one could accuse him of good taste)	"Sweeney Todd".

Circa 1000 Polynesian migrants reach New Zealand where they settle & become this ethnic group	Maoris.

Someone who steps up to the plate for a teammate	Pinch hitter.

The Jacobson's organ at the roof of this legless reptile's mouth is used with its tongue to detect odors	Snake.

Lacquer & tortoise shell were featured in this style of the 1920s	Art Deco.

Jose Marti	Havana.

Sting starred as the vile Macheath in a 1989 revival of this Weill musical	"The Threepenny Opera".

By a vote of its parliament, the Althing, this island country adopts Christianity	Iceland.

This type of frijole may end up refried	Pinto bean.

This innermost & larger of Mars' 2 moons orbits the planet every 7.65 hours	Phobos.

Jean-Pierre Rampal can tell you it's the term for the shallow channels cut into a column	Fluting.

Daphne DuMaurier	London.

Billy Bigelow kills himself after a botched hold-up in this Rodgers & Hammerstein classic	"Carousel".

In retaliation for Viking raids, this "Unready" king of England attacks Norse areas of the Isle of Man	Ethelred.

Among dog breeds, this word follows miniature & Doberman	Pinscher.

A magnetic field is measured in units called gauss or this after a real "coil" guy	Nikola Tesla.

He designed furniture for Federal Hall in New York as well as the basic layout of Washington, D.C.	Pierre L'Enfant.

Jorge Luis Borges	Buenos Aires.

"Chronicle of A Death Foretold", which begins with a murder, is based on a novel by this Colombian author	Gabriel Garcia Marquez.

With the crowning of King Boleslaw, this central European nation is recognized as an independent state	Poland.

Gilbert & Sullivan's naval vessel	H.M.S.

Pinafore.

His bestselling first novel, published in 1846, was set in Polynesia	Herman Melville (\"Typee\").

A rectifier is an electrical device used to convert alternating current to this	direct current.

"Went to a dance lookin' for romance, saw" this girl, "so I thought I'd take a chance"	Barbara Ann.

The science museum in this Virginia capital called its 1987 Science Circus "The Greatest Earth on Show"	Richmond, Virginia.

A group of vipers, even if the snakes don't live in a bird's dwelling	a nest.

From the Germanic "hache", it's a small ax	a hatchet.

With a cash total of $172,800, he's Jeopardy!'s biggest winner ever	Chuck Forrest.

On Earth, it's the major force responsible for the weight of a body	gravity.

In Ritchie Valens' day, this song about a girl was more popular than its flip side, "La Bamba"	Donna.

This is 1 of NYC's longest streets, which you'll find out when you give your regards to it	Broadway.

Kangaroos, monkeys & Boy Scouts all come in these groups	troops.

U.S.

land-based long-range nuclear missile that shares name with type of Revolutionary War fighter	a Minuteman.

Voice heard here on the debut show March 30, 1964:  "And now, entering the studio are today's contestants--this is Mrs.

Mary Eubanks, a housewife from Candor, North Carolina..."	Don Pardo.

At 15 on the modified Mohs' scale, this substance still has the highest hardness number	a diamond.

According to Rodgers & Hart, "The most beautiful girl in the world isn't" either of these 2 stars	Garbo & Dietrich.

This city's voodoo tours can take you to voodoo rituals & voodo queen Marie Laveau's tomb on Basin St.	New Orleans.

Though not noted for their musical skills, a group of gorillas is called this	a band.

One might be fired "out of the blue"--from a crossbow	a bolt.

On this late night host's list of 10 Things Communists Are No Damn Good At, #1 was "Guessing Final Jeopardy"	David Letterman.

Abbreviated "P", this element comes in red, white, & black forms	phosphorus.

In 1964 The Bachelors told this girl, "I'm in heaven when I see you smile"	Diane.

It was almost named "Texas Under 6 Flags", but someone said "Texas ain't never been under nothin'!"	Six Flags Over Texas.

In 1984, he made the music video "I Lost On Jeopardy"	"Weird Al" Yankovic.

According to Frankie Laine, "If ever the devil was born without a pair of horns it was" this woman	you, Jezebel, it was you.

You can "Go Home Again" to see this author's boyhood home in Asheville, North Carolina	Thomas Wolfe.

On the original version, this was the highest dollar value on the Double Jeopardy! board	$100.

From Latin for "undigested food", crudites refers to these	raw vegetables.

Peregrine White, the 1st child born in New England of English parents, was born on this ship	the Mayflower.

Helen Menken, Mary Philips, Mayo Methot & Lauren Bacall	Humphrey Bogart.

Shakespearean play featuring Falstaff & some "happy homemakers"	The Merry Wives of Windsor.

To wrench painfully, like your mom might threaten to do to your neck	wring.

In Czech, it's "Praha", & it's over 1000 years old	Prague.

Chicken livers & water chestnuts wrapped in bacon; fortune cookies to follow	rumaki.

Year in which Franklin Roosevelt was elected for an unprecedented 3rd term as president	1940.

Virginia Cherrill, Barbara Hutton, Betsy Drake, Dyan Cannon & Barbara Harris	Cary Grant.

Name shared by Brutus' wife & the longest female role in "The Merchant of Venice"	Portia.

Both the first & last emperors of modern Germany bore this name	Wilhelm.

His mother, Olga, was once ranked 2nd in Czechoslovakia in women's singles tennis	Ivan Lendl.

Ideally, this type of small appetizer served on toast or crackers should be small enough to eat in 1 bite	canap.

Before he was Canada's P.M., William Lyon Mackenzie King lived in this famous house with Jane Addams	Hull House (in Chicago).

He married Colleen Dewhurst twice & Trish Van Devere once	George C.

Scott.

The daughter of Polonius	Ophelia.

The cicada killer is a large predatory variety of this insect	a wasp.

For poetry that eschews all "dogmas & dictates", Jaroslav Seifert won this in 1984	the Nobel Prize (for Literature).

This chic Middle-Eastern dip is made primarily from chickpeas & served with pita bread	hummus.

In 1962, this country became a constitutional monarchy under King Hassan II	Morocco.

Joan Blondell & June Allyson	Dick Powell.

Comedy which features the wedding of Hippolyta, the queen of the Amazons	A Midsummer Night's Dream.

It found no evidence of a conspiracy involving Oswald & Ruby	the Warren Commission.

Treaty of friendship, cooperations, & mutual assistance that Czechoslovakia signed in 1955	the Warsaw Pact.

Hors d'oeuvres is French for "outside of" this, which is usually when they're served	work.

The 1st prime minister of independent Kenya	Jomo Kenyatta.

Mary Todhunter Clark & Margaretta "Happy" Murphy	Nelson Rockefeller.

In the 1st act, before he's king, this title character woos the newly-widowed Lady Anne	Richard III.

The eve of May Day, on which witches were believed to rendezvous	Walpurgisnacht.

Maryam d'Abo played a Czech cellist in this 1987 film	The Living Daylights.

These are the only 2 independent countries in South America named for a famous person	Colombia & Bolivia.

In 1918 Roald Amundsen was attacked by one of these large white animals	Polar bear.

"Never laugh at live dragons", warned this author in "The Hobbit" -- good advice	J.R.R.

Tolkien.

Russell Simmons & Rick Rubin founded Def Jam, the '80s' premier record label for this type of music	Rap.

Ford, '57, flop, 'nuf said	Edsel.

It's the time of life when a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of....sex	Puberty.

In 1968 this future presidential candidate's stock in E.D.S.

made him a billionaire	Ross Perot.

In 1848 Johannes Rebmann became the first European to see & describe "the snows" of this African mountain	Kilimanjaro.

The novel that gave us the famous phrase "Tous pour un, un pour tous"	The Three Musketeers.

In 1994 Pearl Jam complained to the Justice Dept.

that this company held a monopoly	Ticketmaster.

This former NFL linebacker's show "Lawless" was sacked in March 1997 after one airing	Brian Bosworth.

Oscar De La Hoya or Evander Holyfield	Pugilist.

This billionaire fashion designer introduced Polo jeans in 1996	Ralph Lauren.

Meriwether Lewis fed her ground rattlesnake rattle to speed up her labor & the birth of her child	Sacajawea.

Its less famous second line is "It was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness"	A Tale Of Two Cities.

Legendary promoter who ran the Fillmore West in the Bay Area & the Fillmore East in NYC	Bill Graham.

With teams including the Florida Blazers, this football league lasted for 1 1/2 seasons in '74-'75	WFL (World Football League).

It's another name for the cougar or mountain lion	Puma.

A 1994 book details the "way" he became "the world's greatest investor"	Warren Buffett.

Louis Antoine de Bougainville arrived at this island in 1768 & natives gave him fowls, fruit & naked women	Tahiti.

"Great men can't be ruled", she wrote in "The Fountainhead"	Ayn Rand.

Stanley Durwood of AMC pioneered these cinemas, putting his first in a shopping mall in 1963	Multiplexes.

Roger Ebert called this 1980 Michael Cimino film "Painful & unpleasant to look at"	Heaven's Gate.

It means downright rotten	Putrid.

The William who runs this chewing gum company is the grandson of the William who founded it	Wrigley.

His family friend Tyrker found vines & grapes in the new land, so he called the area Vinland	Leif Ericson.

"...They ought to find a way of being inoculated against love" is a line from his "Anna Karenina"	Leo Tolstoy.

When you buy a Sunset book, a Tom Petty CD or People magazine, you're supporting this conglomerate	Time Warner.

"La Traviata", his modern-dress opera version of "La Dame Aux Camelias", flopped in its 1853 premiere	Giuseppe Verdi.

The third of these wars wiped Carthage off the map, though it was later rebuilt	The Punic Wars.

Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen owns this Portland sports team	Portland Trail Blazers.

Grammatical error committed by the Rolling Stones when they sang, "I Can't Get No Satisfaction"	Double negative.

"Ain't No Mountain High Enough" to keep music fans from visiting this record co.'s Detroit museum	Motown.

The new 23,500-seat U.S.

Tennis Open Stadium is named for this star who died February 6, 1993	Arthur Ashe.

You'll find this Frenchman's name on almost all milk cartons	Louis Pasteur.

Alexander VI was formerly a high-living nobleman of this family & the father of Cesare & Lucrezia	Borgia.

He drank up the money he got for songs like "Oh! Susanna" & died with 38c in his pocket	Stephen Foster.

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE): Action seen here: (Curly Howard) - "Hey you, this is no time to play games - ewww!"	Double take.

MoMA Mia!  It houses such masterpieces as "Starry Night" & Cezanne's "Bather"	Museum of Modern Art.

Except for 1995, the NHL scoring title has gone to either Wayne Gretzky or this Penguins star the past 16 years	Mario Lemieux.

By then living in the U.S., he was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952	Albert Einstein.

Giovanni Ganganelli was educated by this teaching society; as Clement XIV, he suppressed it	Jesuits (Society of Jesus).

Despite help from Engels in the 1850s, he & his family often subsisted on bread & potatoes	Karl Marx.

In this form of jumping rope, 2 people twirl 2 jump ropes in the opposite direction simultaneously	Double Dutch.

This British museum received its present name in 1899, though many refer to it as the V & A	Victoria & Albert.

On Oct.

19, 1924 Grantland Rice wrote of this team's backfield "The Four Horsemen Rode Again"	Notre Dame.

In 1993 he made a "brief" appearance as himself on an episode of "Star Trek:  The Next Generation"	Stephen Hawking.

This pope who called the Second Vatican Council was a quiet church conformist until his 1958 election	Pope John XXIII.

He spent years in poverty after selling his sewing machine invention to corset maker William Thomas	Elias Howe.

In "1984" George Orwell coined this term for the acceptance of 2 contradictory ideas at the same time	Doublethink.

Before going "Out Of Africa", you might visit the museum devoted to this author near Nairobi	Isak Dinesen (Karen Blixen).

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE): "(Hi, I'm Mike Piazza)  I was the NL's '93 Rookie Of The Year.

In '68 this Cincinnati Reds player became the 1st catcher to win the award"	Johnny Bench.

Good Lord!  With absolute zero heirs at his death in 1907, this physicist's peerage became extinct	Lord Kelvin.

This Dutch Renaissance humanist was a pupil of Adrian VI, the only Dutch pope	Erasmus.

This Russian's 1866 novel "The Gambler" is based on his own ruinous passion for roulette	Fyodor Dostoyevsky.

Line preceding "Fire burn and cauldron bubble"	"Double double, toil and trouble"  (from "Macbeth").

The Rosenbach Museum & Library in Philadelphia houses his original manuscript of "Ulysses"	James Joyce.

Earl Anthony rolled on to a record 41 titles in this sport, Mark Roth is second	Bowling.

"Father of the A-Bomb" who recalled the Hindu line "I am become death" after the first atomic explosion	J.

Robert Oppenheimer.

Pius XII previously held this Vatican office that, like its U.S.

cabinet counterpart, requires travel	Secretary of State.

She fled her rich Assisi family to found an order of "poor" nuns	Saint Clare.

Napoleon's plans to invade England were dashed by this October 21, 1805 battle	Battle of Trafalgar.

A statue of King Kamehameha I stands guard outside the judiciary building in this capital city	Honolulu.

Livestock successfully stage rebellion, pigs end up blowing it for everyone	"Animal Farm".

The appendage seen here gives this variety of snake its name	rattlesnake.

A1, Take That & the Spice Girls are all musical acts from this country	Great Britain.

This hot dog condiment is basically chopped sweet pickles	relish.

Headgear for a king, or part of a tooth	crown.

From 1701 to 1875 New Haven & this city were twin capitals of Connecticut; today it's the only one	Hartford.

Title guy shipwrecks, ends up on 28-year island getaway, makes a friend, goes home	"Robinson Crusoe".

Snakes are found naturally on every continent except this one	Antarctica.

Of King Ad Rock, Thugmuffin C, MCA or Mike D, the one who's not a member of the Beastie Boys	Thugmuffin C.

The "Kid' seen here represents these snacks	Twinkies.

It "goes before a fall" & before "Prejudice" in a Jane Austen title	pride.

The capitol building in this city was designed by Thomas Jefferson	Richmond.

2 guys dream of owning a farm, one kills the boss' daughter-in-law, then his pal kills him	"Of Mice and Men".

There are king & Asian species of this "charming" snake seen here	cobra.

In 1998 Will Smith was "Gettin'" to the No.

1 spot on the charts with this song	"Gettin' Jiggy Wit It".

Chicken chunks & chopped veggies in a rich sauce topped with a pastry crust are baked in this "pie"	chicken pot pie.

It's the zodiac sign symbolized by a ram	Aries.

The French called a land formation La Petite Roche, thus giving this capital its name	Little Rock.

Frenchman swipes some bread, gets 19 years, gets out, gets pursued by a cop who dies	"Les Miserables".

This highly venomous snake of the eastern U.S.

has red & black bands separated by yellow ones	coral snake.

That "Fly" band Sugar Ray is led by this heartthrob lead singer	Mark McGrath.

Part of a British breakfast, this jam is made from bitter Seville oranges, including the rinds	marmalade.

Soup's on! & we need this long-handled spoon or scoop to serve it	ladle.

This state capital is in the Green Mountains along the Winooski River	Montpelier.

Con man checks into mental hospital to avoid prison farm, meets nasty nurse, doesn't check out	"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest".

The name of this deadly mottled brown snake of the tropics is from the French for "lance head"	fer-de-lance.

Known for '80s hits like "The Reflex" & "Hungry Like the Wolf", this band charted in the '90s with "Come Undone"	Duran Duran.

The French have Catherine de Medici to thank for introducing this sprouting Italian veggie to them	broccoli.

It can be an object from the past, or a personal item associated with a saint	relic.

He was the only U.S.

president to die in the 18th century	George Washington.

[clue missing because of technical glitch]	Anne Frank.

Like voters in the USA, young women seeking to compete in the Miss Thailand contest must be at least this age	18.

Not even a wheelchair & voice synthesizer can stop him from unlocking the secrets of the universe	Stephen Hawking.

Chicago's United Center & Salt Lake City's Delta Center are named for this type of business	airlines.

An informal talk about flying mammals	bat chat.

This former general was the first Republican to serve 2 full terms as president	Ulysses S.

Grant.

Brooke Shields & Lucy Lawless played Rizzo in the '90s revival of this rockin' high school musical	Grease.

The 100-member Asian Youth Orchestra recently played to rave reviews in this South Korean capital	Seoul.

In 1610 this Italian made his biggest discovery: the 4 largest moons of Jupiter	Galileo.

This Disney-owned baseball team plays at Anaheim's Edison International Field	Anaheim Angels.

Small vessel for shipping a nanny or a billy	goat boat.

This Mexican War hero & winning 1848 candidate had never voted for president before	Zachary Taylor.

R&B sensation Stephanie Mills was a teenager when she eased on down the road in this role in "The Wiz"	Dorothy.

Young actors like Rani Mukherjee perform in movies in "Bollywood" in this populous Asian country	India.

This "Father of Genetics" is the subject of the biography "The Monk in the Garden"	Gregor Mendel.

This team that won a championship in 2001 plays in PSINet Stadiun	Baltimore Ravens.

A fake small horse	phony pony.

In 1950 he threatened a music critic who had unkind words for daughter Margaret's singing	Harry S.

Truman.

The Jets & the Sharks are teenage gangs in this 1957 musical that features the song "Tonight"	West Side Story.

With songs like "Fly Away", rock star Cui Jian is one of the leading pop musicians from this Asian country	China.

At the Pantheon in Paris in 1851, he demonstrated the Earth's rotation using his famous pendulum	Michel Foucault.

Now that this city's Civic Arena is the Mellon Arena, its citizens can be full of Mellon pride	Pittsburgh.

The $1.99 lamb as opposed to the $19.99 one	cheap sheep.

His 1791 marriage to Rachel Robards was invalid, so they had to do it all over again on January 17, 1794	Andrew Jackson.

Zaneeta Shinn, a character in this musical, is the teenage daughter of the mayor of River City	The Music Man.

With a 6-wicket victory over Nepal, Bangladesh recently retained the Asian youth championship in this sport	cricket.

He was doing research on influenza when he accidentally discovered penicillin	Alexander Fleming.

3-letter corporate name that's on the Indianapolis venue seen here	RCA Dome.

An 18-wheeler used to get your porkers to market	pig rig.

One of 2 landlocked countries in South America	(1 of 2) Bolivia or Paraguay.

This lieutenant colonel recruited some of his Rough Riders at William Menger's hotel in San Antonio	Theodore Roosevelt.

The prime time spellcaster wasn't Sabrina, but Samantha in this series	Bewitched.

It includes the postcentral gyrus, the precentral gyrus, the parietal lobe & the occipital lobe	Brain/skull.

The May beetle is also called this, perhaps when it shows up a few weeks late	Junebug.

The Los Angeles Lakers retired his No.

32 jersey	Earvin "Magic" Johnson.

Disgruntled Disney dwarf (6)	Grumpy.

In Old West talk, "fit" was the past tense of this	Fight.

Alphabetically, he's Santa's first reindeer	Blitzen.

The katydid is also called the long-horned (meaning long-antennaed) one of these	Grasshopper.

It begins "Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven"	32nd Psalm.

Thank You, in Tampico (7)	Gracias.

This hat maker traveled west, saw a need & returned in 1865 to make his famous hat in Philadelphia	John Stetson.

The Span.

abbrev.

for one of these is ovni (objecto volador no identificado)	UFO.

Its shape allows it to hide among twigs	Walking stick.

Before a crowd of almost 70,000, this team won Super Bowl XXXII January 25, 1998	the Denver Broncos.

A source of rumors, or of Riesling (9)	Grapevine.

He tried to help the town of Dolores, N.M.

in 1900 by using static electricity to extract gold out of gravel	Thomas Edison.

Over 14 times the mass of the Earth, this planet is seventh from the sun	Uranus.

This fly that you might find "in distress" resembles a dragonfly but folds its wings back at rest	Damselfly.

On May 11, 1858 this "North Star" state became U.S.

state No.

32	Minnesota.

You throw it down, or run it (8)	Gauntlet.

Ogden, now this state's sixth-largest city, was named for an Old West fur trapper	Utah.

A patron of wisdom & good fortune, the Hindu god Ganesha bears the head of this animal	Elephant.

Because of its colors the butterfly seen here is named after this beast (orange & black colors)	Tiger butterfly.

The 32nd Academy Award for Best Picture went to this 1959 epic	Ben-Hur.

"Cheesy" Dutch city (5)	Gouda.

On July 4, 1803 Thomas Jefferson supplied this pair with a general letter of credit to use on their trip	Lewis & Clark.

We'll never tire of telling you its symbol is GR, not B.F.	Goodrich.

Mythic Sumerian hero Utnapishtim built a big boat & survived this catastrophe	The flood.

1997's "Calling All Stations" was their first album since Phil Collins left the group	Genesis.

Grover Cleveland Alexander was inducted into this sport's Hall of Fame in 1938 & interred in Nebraska in 1950	Baseball.

It refers to the behavior of teenagers, or of immature adults	Adolescent.

Speke stopped speaking to Burton after their trip to find the source of this river	Nile.

The annual report of this company, PRD, is as pretty as an instant picture	Polaroid.

Hammurabi was famous for his, but Ur-Nammu enforced one of these centuries earlier	Code of law.

In 1990 Roger Waters of this group gave a performance of "The Wall" at the former site of the Berlin Wall	Pink Floyd.

Many "Our Fathers" must have been said when he died May 15, 1948 & was interred in Boys Town	Father Flanagan.

Fatty, like some "tissue"	Adipose.

A book by Thomas James, who searched for the Northwest Passage, inspired this Coleridge poem	"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner".

Add "YBOY" to this 3-letter symbol to get the full name of a big media company	PLA.

Sumerians scratched this writing system into stone & wax in addition to clay tablets	Cuneiform.

In 1998 this group seen here reunited for a VH1 special & a concert tour ("I'll Tumble 4 Ya")	Culture Club.

Though he starred in "Oklahoma!" this husband of Sheila is buried in Nebraska	Gordon MacRae.

It means "sufficient or good enough" & can imply "but just barely"	Adequate.

Hillary said this man left some offerings to the gods of Chomolungma atop Everest in 1953	Tenzing Norgay.

In the mall you may fall into this store, GPS	The Gap.

These Sumerian pyramids were topped by temples	Ziggurats.

In 1995 this founder of Cream & Derek & the Dominos was named an Officer of the British Empire	Eric Clapton.

Long-time Nebraska senator George Norris, who helped create this project, the TVA, is buried in McCook	Tennessee Valley Authority.

Unfavorable, like some circumstances, or the last name of Anthony in a 1933 novel	Adverse.

In 1828 Rene Caille reached this remote African city, "an object of curiosity" to Europeans	Timbuktu.

You don't need a Visa to visit this bank's stock symbol, CMB	Chase Manhattan Bank.

(Hi, I'm Graham Nash)  As a member of this group in the 1960s, I co-wrote their hits "Carrie-Anne" & "Stop, Stop, Stop"	The Hollies.

Latin term for a type of argument based on emotion or on another person's character	Ad hominem.

Today meaning a self-employed person, this term derives from medieval knights who sold their skills	Freelancer.

The ancient Ban Chiang poetry of Thailand resembles that of this country's neolithic Yang-Shao period	China.

In the 1750s the original golf course here had 11 holes & you played each of them twice	St.

Andrews.

Known as Wandermeisen in German, these conspicuously mobile ants move about in long, orderly columns	army ants.

Add this letter to Earth & you get a scarcity	D (dearth).

One man who had this name discovered Lake Tanganyika; the other played Becket & Trotsky on film	Richard Burton.

...son born to Barbara Bush	Jeb (Bush).

Ancient Greeks believed that wine was a gift from this god, the Greek equivalent of Bacchus	Dionysus.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from Utah Olympic Park, with Cheryl and Jimmy pushing her in a bobsled.)  Begun in the 1800s, the first bobsleds didn't have these--a garden rake was used instead	brakes.

The chigoe is a sand-dwelling variety of this insect	a flea.

Add this letter to Mars & you get a fen	H (marsh).

In 1886 Richard Sears began selling pocket watches & in 1887 hired this man as his watch repairman	Roebuck.

...franchise to win the Super Bowl	New York Jets.

Because of his work there, you could call the astronomer Hipparchus "the colossus of" this island	Rhodes.

By the time the British discovered this sport in India around 1860, it used a ball, no longer a goat's or enemy's head	polo.

The field & house types of this insect are sold as laboratory subjects, frog food & bait	crickets.

Add this letter to Saturn's moon Titan & you get a Renaissance guy who liked to paint Venus	I (Titian).

Either of the 2 parents of Richard the Lion-Hearted	(1 of) Henry II & Eleanor of Aquitaine.

...U.S.

manned space program	the Gemini program.

Horrified by the carnage of war, Asoka, a 3rd century B.C.

ruler in India, embraced this peaceful religion	Buddhism.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew slides a curling stone across the ice in the Utah Olympic Oval.)  Curling came to North America with Scottish soldiers who melted down these iron projectiles; today's stone is 40 pounds of polished granite	cannonballs.

This garden pest controller is the state insect of Delaware & Massachusetts	ladybug.

Add this letter to Jupiter's moon Io & you get an acronym that's a ground-floor stock offer for regular guys	P (IPO).

He shot the famous photo of Nastassja Kinski & the serpent	Richard Avedon.

...to become Secretary of Homeland Security	Michael Chertoff.

Hetepheres was the mother of this Great Pyramid king; when her tomb was found, Mummy's mummy was missing	Cheops.

The 18th century Broughton rules were intended to lessen the brutality of this sport	boxing.

Used by scientists to clean flesh off bones being prepared for research, dermestids are a type of this insect	a beetle.

Add this letter to star & get something harsh or grim	K (stark).

He was actually in prison when he wrote, "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage"	Richard Lovelace.

...Sherlock Holmes novel published	The Sign of Four.

His second inaugural address began, "At this last presidential inauguration of the twentieth century..."	Bill Clinton.

Buenos Aires held back a sniffle when this Madonna hit went to No.

8 in 1997	"Don't Cry For Me Argentina".

Beware Thornton Wilder's "The Ides of March" & this play where you'll find the phrase	Julius Caesar.

Style.com stated that your spring 2006 wardrobe must include a baby-doll dress in the style of this decade	the '60s.

Liberation & Le Petit Journal are leading ones of these in France	newspapers.

You were a fool to move that bishop!  This 4-letter term in 3 moves	mate.

Subpoenaed for documents in Burr's treason trial, he cited executive privilege; didn't work	Thomas Jefferson.

It was Elvis' third No.

1 hit of 1956	"Don't Be Cruel".

Faulkner's "The Sound and the Fury" as well as Steinbeck's "The Moon Is Down" come from this play	Macbeth.

Of Elie Saab, Elie Saturn or Elie Subaru, the one who designed the gown Halle Berry wore when she won her Oscar	Elie Saab.

With its team led by Zinedine Zidane, France won this prestigious contest in July 1998	the World Cup.

In "Jaws", it's what Roy Scheider threw overboard to lure the shark	chum.

His will gave a total of $110,000 to grandchildren Alexander & Melanie Eisenhower & Christopher Cox	(Richard) Nixon.

No doubt you know this "Tragic Kingdom" tune was No.

1 for 16 weeks on the airplay chart in 1996 & '97	"Don't Speak".

Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World" comes from a speech of Miranda's in this play	The Tempest.

The sex-symbol look of films like "La Dolce Vita" has long insired Domenico Dolce & this partner	Gabana.

In 1992, 200 years after it was written, 40% of the French found it excessively bloody & 25% wanted it changed	the French National Anthem ("La Marseillaise").

The first name of actress Sheedy, pronounced differently	ally.

In November 1910 he was elected governor of New Jersey	Wilson.

Elton John saw the light of the Top 5 with this song twice, in 1974 & 1992	"Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me".

This long-running Agatha Christie drama references the play-within-a-play in "Hamlet"	The Mousetrap (A Mousetrap accepted).

Launched by her brother in the '90s, a fragrance called Blonde was inspired by this Italian designer's long blonde hair	Donnatella Versace.

Just south of Champagne is this other potent potable-named region, a former duchy	Burgundy.

A nobleman, or to look intently	peer.

On June 28, 1919 he married Elizabeth Wallace	Harry Truman.

If you've given up, stop! & tell us this Tom Petty song that won the Best Special Effects MTV Music Video Award in '85	"Don't Come Around Here No More".

Peter Straub & Danielle Steel both came "Full Circle", spoken by Edmund in this Shakespearean tragedy	King Lear.

Flowing fabric defines this fashion house founded by Tanya Sarne; its name is a synonym for "phantom"	Ghost.

"Jet" over to this largest Paris place, site of the guillotine during the French Revolution	the Place de la Concorde.

The sport of rowing	crew.

Shah Jahan, Ranjit Singh & Queen Victoria all possessed a famous one whose name means "mountain of light"	a diamond.

This doctor's "Diet Revolution" promised weight loss with a high-protein/low-carb diet (pass the steaki)	Dr.

Atkins.

This union state's 6th regiment was nicknamed the Minutemen; its 20th was the Harvard regiment	Massachusetts.

These electronic toys were a must-have item during the Christmas season of 1998	the Furby.

The actual quote from this star of gangster films was "you dirty yellow-bellied rat!"	Jimmy Cagney.

"He was a bold man that first ate" this bivalve mollusk	an oyster.

Aaugh! This comic strip character was torn between a summer camp flame named Peggy Jean & the little red-haired girl	Charlie Brown.

Recent diet books: "The Paleo Diet" & "Neanderthin: Eat Like" one of these "to achieve a lean, strong, healthy body"	a Caveman.

The westernmost states to stay loyal to the union were California & this one that had just been admitted in 1859	Oregon.

Rolled up, like a flag or a boat's sails	furled.

Despite the opportunity, this November 1965 event in NYC did not result in a mini baby boom 9 months later	a blackout.

"Every man desires to live long, but no man would be" this	old.

Ack! In 2010 Ms.

Guisewite said her "creative biological clock" was ticking & ended this strip after 34 years	Cathy.

You may want to enter this, a diet book & program by Barry Sears, who clarified with "Mastering" it	The Zone.

Turnabout is fair play--it seceded from a confederate state & joined the union in June 1863	West Virginia.

To provide & install housewares to a dwelling	furnish.

Contrary to popular belief this critter does not commit mass suicide in times of overpopulation	a lemming.

"Proper words in proper places make the true definition of" this--it's elementary, according to Strunk & White	style.

This Scott Adams title guy with a gravity-defying tie accidentally invented a death ray that interested North Korea	Dilbert.

This chef followed up his "Now Eat This!" cookbook with "Now Eat This! Diet"	(Rocco) DiSpirito.

A senator from this state said, "having been the first...to enter the union", it would be "the last to abandon it"	Delaware.

A smelter, for example	a furnace.

This exhaustive reference work first published in 1768 is not British: it has been American-owned for over 100 years	the Encyclopedia Britannica.

These, made by parliament, "are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through"	laws.

Duke has been Gov.

of American Samoa, GM of the Redskins & a lobbyist for the NRA in this comic strip	Doonesbury.

It stayed in the union, but the confederacy also admitted it in 1861; it was in a "compromising" position, after all	Missouri.

Popular composition from around 1810 heard here	Fr Elise.

It's not one large bone below the waist, it's five bones - the coccyx, the ilium, the ischium, the pubis and the sacrum.	the pelvis.

"A flea / hath smaller fleas that on him prey; / and these have smaller still to bite 'em; / and so proceed" this endless way	ad infinitum.

On December 8, 1980 Berkeley Breathed began his magnum opus with the debut of this strip	Bloom County.

The caldarium, the tepidarium & the frigidarium were chambers in these, where olden Romans refreshed themselves	the baths.

To cause to undergo combustion	burn.

Time to get high on this hyphenated maker's hog, specifically the Fat Bob, which gets a fat 53 mpg on the highway	Harley-Davidson.

Guilt by ____ Football	association.

Formed by plate tectonics, these mid-ocean uplifts are actually underwater mountain chains	ridges.

This Monty Python stalwart went the full monty in "A Fish Called Wanda"	(John) Cleese.

Virginia's Shirley plantation has a "hanging" one of these that climbs 3 stories without any visible means of support	a staircase.

A light yellow-brown; perfect color for an envelope, I say	manila.

Baseball's Ichiro must be aware that this maker's B-King is the "rowdy alter ego" to its Hayabusa	Suzuki.

A good ____ Havoc	cry.

In 2006 scientists argued that the westward trend of continents was due partly to these shifts in sea levels caused by the moon	the tides.

In "Get Him to the Greek", this Brit took a trip in the buff in a toy car	Russell Brand.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew stands on the steps of the New York Stock Exchange.) The six Corinthian columns of the New York Stock Exchange facade  are among the reasons the building is considered a masterpiece of this architectural style that drew inspiration from Greek and Roman models.	neoclassic.

You'll find one on any shoe	sole.

"Let the good times roll" with this company's supersport cycle, the Ninja ZX-14	Kawasaki.

Mobile ____ Economics	home.

Borat, played by this British comic, had a naked tussle with his portly Kazakh TV producer	(Sacha Baron) Cohen.

This type of window that opens by means of a crank rhymes with a lower story of a building	casement.

Almost half of north Americans have this kind of blood	Type A.

Curry ____ Keg	powder.

Jason Segel's real-life split was the basis of his naked break-up with this 2008 title movie gal	Sarah Marshall.

After WWI he became director of the Grand Ducal art school in Weimar; in 1925 he moved the school to Dessau	Walter Gropius.

Is old-time ballplayer Yogi able to?	Canberra.

Near ____ South Dakota pageant	miss.

Ken Jeong bared all as crime lord Mr.

Chow in this 2009 Vegas comedy	The Hangover.

Born in 1672 & named for a saint, in 1703 he founded a city whose name represents both of them	Peter the Great.

He won in 1955 for his novel "The Long Goodbye"	Raymond Chandler.

This film gave us "The holiest event of our time.

Perfect for their return" (& Tom Hanks')	Angels and Demons.

A pet for my pet!  This can spray its odoriferous musk accurately up to 12 feet; worry not!  It'll stamp its feet to warn thee first	a skunk.

A crossing of the celestial equator by the sun, it happens twice a year	an equinox.

Confound it!  Spell check just changed chancre into this 14th c.

author of some "Tales"	Chaucer.

When this Bible guy came down from the mountain & saw his people dancing before the golden calf, boy, was he upset!	Moses.

"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold" got him the Edgar	John le Carr.

This 2009 comedy proclaimed, "Some guys just can't handle Vegas"	The Hangover.

Drink (or eat) deep, my dear, for I have brought deep-fried this drink, "the real thing", from the state fair of Texas	Coke.

These long distance travelers may be dirty ice balls or icy dirt balls	comets.

Spell check keeps trying to change Antietam into this long-snouted insectivore that comes in giant & 3 other species	an anteater.

He gave his kids by Cleopatra much of the land once ruled by Alexander the Great; his co-rulers & rivals were not pleased	Mark Antony.

He won for his novel "The Day of the Jackal" & the short story "There Are No Snakes in Ireland"	(Frederick) Forsyth.

"Lather.

Rinse.

Save the world" advertised this Adam Sandler comedy	You Don't Mess with the Zohan.

From this author's "The Jungle" I shall read lines like "On the killing beds you were apt to be covered with blood"	Upton Sinclair.

Undetected murky stuff in the universe presumed to exist because of its gravitational effects	dark matter.

Tried to put in the first name of Colts quarterback Manning & it turned him into this hallucinogenic cactus	peyote.

In 2005 this ex-diplomat wasn't so diplomatic, saying, "I believe Karl Rove should be fired" for outing his CIA wife, Valerie Plame	(Joseph) Wilson.

Writing about the world of horse racing, he's won for "Forfeit" & "Come to Grief"	Dick Francis.

This WWII film from 2008 had the tag "Many saw evil.

They dared to stop it"	Valkyrie.

Tonight we sup on this animal's jowls, used to flavor stews as a southern delicacy; it's a motorcycle term, too, my love	a hog.

Ay, caramba!  Spell check changed the last name of a 16th c.

conquistador into this, an old-fashioned girdle	a corset.

Jealous of this Prussian chancellor's fame, Wilhelm II sank him by forcing his resignation in 1890	Bismarck.

He won in the Best Fact Crime category for such works as "Helter Skelter" & "Till Death Us Do Part"	Bugliosi.

1982 film that showed "A world inside a computer where man has never been.

Never before now"	Tron.

Indeed, I should've told you I had this "kissing disease" whose incubation period is 30-40 days; hey, where ya goi	mononucleosis.

I want to call my girl "dollpuss", not this suggested alternative meaning large portions of sour cream	dollops.

In "The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson", this author wrote, "When angry, count four; when very angry, swear"	Mark Twain.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from near an old ship.)  I'm in this country, at the Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde--the former seat of its kings	Denmark.

In a 1971 No.

1 hit the Bee Gees wanted to know "How can you mend" one of these	a broken heart.

You are now free to move about the country on this company's New Mexico One aircraft	Southwest.

An automobile for any former Russian emperor	a Czar car.

Yikes!  Among these indigenous Australians, a person is thought to become a shaman after an initiatory death	the Aborigines.

A brown tick named for this pet has the rare ability to complete its life cycle indoors	dog.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew rides the Maid of the Mist.)  I'm north of the border at Niagara Falls, shared by the United States & this Canadian province	Ontario.

In a 1995 No.

1, Bryan Adams wanted to know if you'd ever really done this	loved a woman.

In April 2008 it was announced that Northwest & this Atlanta-based airline would merge	Delta.

A tiny New Zealander, or a tiny New Zealand bird	a peewee Kiwi.

In the traditional religion of this Asian peninsula, male shamans are called Paksu	the Korean Peninsula.

The chipping type of this common seed-eating little bird is a popular host for ticks	a sparrow.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew walks a market aisle.)  I'm at Tsukiji--a seafood market that's known as a kitchen for 12 million people in this capital city	Tokyo.

In this 1960 hit, Elvis wondered if you're "sorry we drifted apart"	"Are You Lonesome Tonight?".

On Dec.

19, 2008 this "colorful" airline became the official one for the Red Sox, though its main hub is in (gasp!) N.Y.	JetBlue.

Hotel foyer where British policemen like to gather	the Bobby lobby.

18th c.

groups led by shamans fought over the Yenisey River in this 5 million-sq.-mi.

area of North-Central Russia	Siberia.

The tick species Ixodes dammini has as its favorite hosts white-footed mice & white-tailed these	deer.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from a cobblestone intersection.)  I'm in the first French town liberated by the Allies in 1944; it's also famous for being the home of a tapestry depicting the Norman conquest	Bayeux.

1984 No.

1 for Tina Turner about the thrill of boy meeting girl	"What's Love Got To Do With It".

Logically, this Spanish airline's first flight, in 1927, was between Barcelona & Madrid	Iberia.

The forehead of a German mrs.	a Frau brow.

The Warao Indians of South America believe this noisy shamanic gourd instrument has healing properties	a rattle (or shaker).

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from a Spanish-architecture courtyard.)  I'm in this Peruvian city, once the capital of an empire, & one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the western hemisphere	Cuzco.

In 1961 the Shirelles noted that "Tonight the light of love is in your eyes" but wanted to know this	Will you still love me tomorrow?.

Hong Kong's home carrier, in 2006 it celebrated its 60th anniversary	Cathay Pacific.

Japanese kimono sash for a small, spiny-finned fish	an obi goby.

Shamans on this Southeast Asian peninsula, also called the Kra Peninsula, use quartz crystals for healing	the Malay Peninsula.

A trophy named for this author is awarded to anyone who breaks the record for sailing a yacht around the world	Jules Verne.

Shooting down 22 planes in 1918, Eddie Rickenbacker was the USA's No.

1 flying ace in this war	World War I.

The Lord's Prayer says, "And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from" this	evil.

This "Pretty Woman" was born in Smyrna, Georgia on Oct.

28, 1967	Julia Roberts.

These electromagnetic rays used to take pictures of your insides were originally known as Roentgen rays	X-rays.

4-letter synonym for "trade"; the Rose Bowl has a meet where it's done	swap.

G'Day Mate!  Room service hopped in with kangaroo-tail soup, your breakfast from this continent	Australia.

He hosted a phenomenally successful prime-time variety show for 24 years	Ed Sullivan.

In the '30s she starred in "The Little Princess", "The Little Colonel" & "Little Miss Marker"	Shirley Temple.

Dinah Shore, Sally Field & Loni Anderson were longtime loves of this hunk from Waycross	Burt Reynolds.

This German-born American physicist won the 1921 Nobel Prize for Physics	Albert Einstein.

This Illinois city's Board of Trade deals in futures, so less than 5% of what's traded there gets delivered	Chicago.

He earned an Oscar nomination for his supporting role in "The Hours"	Ed Harris.

Bird similes include "Spry as a spring chicken" & "Proud as" one of these	peacock.

This fiery actress from Conyers starred in "Miss Firecracker", "Raising Arizona" & "Broadcast News"	Holly Hunter.

When combined with oxygen, this lightest chemical element makes water	hydrogen.

Dealers seal transactions with a handshake in the 47th Street "district" for these gems	diamonds.

In order to marry a twice-divorced American woman, King Edward VIII of this country abdicated the throne in 1936	England.

If a Maori showed you a tiki, you'd be looking at one of these	statue.

Born in Athens, Georgia, she starred in "9 1/2 Weeks" & played Eminem's mom in "8 Mile"	Kim Basinger.

Also a term for someone from Warsaw, it's one of the 2 strongest points in a magnetic field	Pole.

Muriel Siebert was the first woman to hold a seat on this Wall Street body founded in 1792	the New York Stock Exchange.

In 1994 Johnny Depp played this wacky director of such classic films as "Plan 9 from Outer Space" & "Necromania"	Ed Wood.

Non-potent potable for which your first set of teeth is named	milk teeth.

The symbol of this radioactive element is Pu & it sounds like it's named after Mickey Mouse's dog	plutonium.

You must take tea before bargaining for a rug at Istanbul's "Grand" one of these trading spaces	bazaar.

Margaret Mitchell began this book, "Scarlett O'Hara was not beautiful, but men seldom realized it..."	"Gone with the Wind".

With 6 Academy Awards total, this adapted musical was the big winner on Oscar Night 2003	Chicago.

Upon completing the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in 1512, he wrote to his father, "The pope is well satisfied"	Michelangelo.

Giuliani, Valentino, the Red-Nosed Reindeer	Rudolph.

At last count, this state had about 2 1/2 times as many cars as Texas or New York	California.

After the taping, what say we cool off with a frozen banana one of these	daiquiri.

In 1990 he reissued "The Stand" with nearly 500 more pages than the original	Stephen King.

This Best Actress Winner said that Russell Crowe told her not to cry...but she did anyway	Nicole Kidman.

This pop artist's studio was known as "The Factory"	Andy Warhol.

Ashcroft, Belushi, Barleycorn	John.

Florida's in the southeast corner of the 48 contiguous states; this state is in the northwest corner	Washington.

Type of doctor who's most likely to give a patient a lollipop	pediatrician.

President Reagan called this man's first novel "The Hunt for Red October" the "perfect yarn"	Tom Clancy.

Seen here, the Chub Chubs won the Oscar in this category	Animated Short.

In 1963 this "Christina's World" artist became the first painter to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom	Andrew Wyeth.

Lewis, Tarkanian, Springer	Jerry.

The Mississippi River begins at Lake Itasca in this "M" state (not Mississippi)	Minnesota.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew in Oahu, Hawaii)  I'm overlooking this Oahu beach that attracts about 65,000 visitors a day	Waikiki.

This 1939 Steinbeck classic featured a lot of Joads including Ma, Pa & Tom	"The Grapes of Wrath".

For "Talk to Her", he became the first man in over 30 years to win with a screenplay in a foreign language	Pedro Almodovar.

He painted "Tahitian Women" shortly after arriving on that island in 1891	Paul Gauguin.

Henson, Morrison, Lehrer	Jim.

It's the state whose shape is seen here	Nevada.

Sports Illustrated's 1997 Swimsuit Issue (the Tyra Banks cover) featured "Nothing but" these	Bikinis.

Chris Cooper won his Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his work in this film seen here	Adaptation.

On September 29, 1910, this painter known for his seascapes died in his studio in Prouts Neck, Maine	Winslow Homer.

Hamilton, Calder, Haig	Alexander.

This state's name includes the name of the country that was the top destination for U.S.

tourists in 2001	New Mexico.

Fran Lebowitz called this type of pasta with clam sauce "mankind's crowning achievement"	linguini.

On December 11, 1967 it was removed from the British registry & turned over to the city of Long Beach, California	the Queen Mary.

Since 1947, the historic region of Punjab has been divided between these 2 countries	India & Pakistan.

This character on "Seinfeld" thought of "a coffee table book about coffee tables" that turned into a coffee table	Kramer.

Beef chili is also called "chili con" this, Spanish for "meat"	carne.

You don't have to buy a vowel, but you do begin this word game by drawing a gallows	hangman.

In the 1920s, Frank Whittle, who grew up making model airplanes, designed the first working engine of this type	a jet engine.

Landing or Gaza	a strip.

As part of his Easternmost conquests, this Greek's armies occupied the Punjab around 327 B.C.	Alexander the Great.

On this show, "The Itchy & Scratchy Movie" was novelized by Norman Mailer	The Simpsons.

"Joy of Cooking" gives a recipe for this beef dish but cautions that eating raw meat can be hazardous to your health	steak tartare.

In 2007 he became the first man since Bill Tilden to win the U.S.

Open 4 years in a row	(Roger) Federer.

Alexander Wood & Charles Pravaz are credited with developing this device in 1853 first used to inject morphine	a (hypodermic) syringe.

Idle talk about the private affairs of others	gossip.

In the 1840s this European power fought 2 costly wars over the Punjab before annexing the region outright	the English (Great Britain).

A man is searching for the novel "Knickerless Nickleby" in the bookstore skit on this British Show	Monty Python('s Flying Circus).

Corned beef is cured in brine; this other deli meat is seasoned brisket that's been cured, smoked & cooked	pastrami.

The first important U.S.

tournament in this board game took place in New York City in 1857	chess.

After Carrier came up with this in 1902, my 20 babes waving palm fronds idea went out the window	air conditioning.

A bon mot	a quip.

In this Kipling work, the title orphan's father was a sergeant in an Irish regiment in the Punjab	Kim.

This doctor from the original "Star Trek" series wrote "Comparative Alien Physiology"	McCoy.

Part of the name of this expensive boneless cut means "dainty" in French	filet mignon.

Jordan & Bird hit "nothing but net" playing this shot-for-shot basketball game in 1990s TV ads for McDonald's	HORSE.

After steamboat success, he was urged to work on submarine-launched torpedoes by Pres.

Jefferson	Robert Fulton.

Mating rituals, perhaps for Miles Standish?	courtship.

Predominant in the Punjab, this religion has origins in both Hinduism & Islam	Sikhism.

Jose Chung speaks to FBI agents before writing "From Outer Space" about an alien abduction on this show	The X-Files.

It's the French name for boeuf braised in red wine, usually garnished with mushrooms & white onions	buf bourguignon.

From before 3000 B.C., the game Senet of these people used a board & pieces to depict an afterlife journey	the Egyptians.

In 1868, 9 years after developing the railway sleeping car, he introduced the first railway car for dining	Pullman.

Carrot relative seen here	a parsnip.

Colons & commas & hyphens, oh my!	punctuation.

Around 46 B.C, Julius Caesar offended his countrymen by dedicating a statue to her	Cleopatra.

We liked her, we really liked her when this actress won for "Places in the Heart" in 1985	Sally Field.

Georges Rouault liked to include some tragic ones of these in his works; Red Skelton specialized in them	clowns.

(A trainer and dog stop at a curb behind Cheryl of the Clue Crew at The Seeing Eye in New Jersey.)  A dog is trained to stop at curbs for two reasons, safety & orientation, as people who are visually impaired determine location by counting these	the blocks.

The musical "Les Mis" didn't debut on Broadway but in this city, its setting	Paris.

Furry Phil's Pennsylvania place for fanciful February forecasting	Punxsutawney.

As an example to her Russian subjects, she & her son Paul had themselves inoculated against smallpox in 1768	Catherine (the Great).

In 1992, proving he could keep up with the younger crowd, he did one-armed pushups accepting his "City Slickers" Oscar	Jack Palance.

A Gerrit Dou work is sometimes known as "The Mother of" this painter with whom Dou studied in 17th century Leiden	Rembrandt.

(Jon of the Clue Crew pets a German shepherd puppy at The Seeing Eye in New Jersey.)  The Seeing Eye puppy-raising program aims to have dogs learn the ABCs: affection, this & courtesy	behavior.

He directed a landmark Chinese production of his play "Death of a Salesman" at the People's Art Theatre in Beijing	Arthur Miller.

Pugilistic pair pictured here	Punch & Judy.

In 1616 she & her husband John Rolfe traveled to England to help raise funds for the Virginia colonists	Pocahontas.

He's the "SNL" guy (& you're not) who opened the 1988 show with, "Good evening Hollywood phonies"; he never hosted again	Chevy Chase.

19th c.

painter Thomas Cole lived in Catskill, N.Y.

on this river, whose "School" he helped found	the Hudson River.

(Jon of the Clue Crew crosses the street with a trainer & her dog at The Seeing Eye in New Jersey.)  A Seeing Eye dog owner listens to traffic to know when to say "forward"; the dog doesn't know when to go because dogs have this visual deficiency of their own	colorblindness.

A Dutch TV reality show picked the muscular "swinger" for the European run of this Disney musical	Tarzan.

William Gibson pioneered this sci-fi genre of characters in a dark, futuristic world dominated by computers	cyberpunk.

In November 1988 she was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan, becoming the first woman to head a modern Islamic nation	(Benazir) Bhutto.

Disney sued the Academy for "unflattering" use of this character after a 1989 duet with her & Rob Lowe	Snow White.

A note formerly on the back of "Figure de fantasie" by this Rococo painter says it was done in one hour	Fragonard.

(Jon of the Clue Crew watches as a dog refuses to cross a street despite its trainer's urging.)  Thoreau talked of "civil" this, but dogs must learn "intelligent" this, like stopping instead of obeying an order to go forward	disobedience.

There's a "method" behind his founding of the Moscow Art Theatre with Nemirovich-Danchenko	(Constantin) Stanislavski.

From the Latin for "mark for deletion", it's to erase something from official records	expunge.

To further the ambitions of her brother, her father, Pope Alexander VI, arranged several marriages for her	Lucrezia Borgia.

This "American Beauty" nominee nearly had a pregnant pause at the 2000 show; she was due with her 4th at any moment	Annette Bening.

This Venetian, said his pupil Palma Giovane, "used his fingers more than his brush" to finish his lush works	Titian.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew leads Jon on at The Seeing Eye in New Jersey.)  In the matching process for a dog, people with visual impairments are evaluated on pace & pull using this harness named for the Roman queen of heaven	Juno.

If you get to put "RSC" on your resume, you were part of this British troupe	the Royal Shakespeare Company.

When completed, it stretched for 73 1/2 miles from Bowness to Wallsend	Hadrian's Wall.

In a common saying, it's what some people can't see for the trees	the forest.

You can visit this sport's hall of fame on PGA Blvd.

in Pinehurst, North Carolina	golf.

In Cole Porter's song, these words follow "can't look at hobbles and I can't stand fences"	don't fence me in.

Device that's implanted to control irregular heart beats	a pacemaker.

Ray Walston was the Martian while the "my" in "My Favorite Martian" referred to him	Bill Bixby.

With a favorable wind, skunks can do this for up to about 23 feet	spray.

A college team might have to do this for games played with ineligible team members	forfeit.

Except when it's on tour, the most important King Tut collection is housed in this city	Cairo.

Hey, good looki	Hank Williams.

The term "strep", as in strep throat, is short for this type of bacteria	Streptococcus.

Before playing the principal at "The Bronx Zoo", he played the city editor of the L.A.

Tribune	Ed Asner.

The skunk lends its name to this foul-smelling "vegetable" found in swamps	skunk cabbage.

Jewelers as well as surgeons use this tool for grasping & holding	forceps.

Type of place you'd be visiting if you were in Wind Cave, Lassen or Zion	a national park.

In "Red River Valley", cowboys sing, "come and" do this "if you love me"	sit by my side.

He was a world authority on the gall wasp in the '20s before turning to sex research	Kinsey.

In 1977 her own show aired on CBS just before "Maude"; now she's a "Golden Girl" with Bea Arthur	Betty White.

Name of zee skunk in zee popular Warner Brothers cartoons	Pep Le Pew.

Usually it's the last thing you're served in a Chinese restaurant	a fortune cookie.

1 of 2 famous Danish breweries you can tour in Copenhagen	Tuborg (or Carlsberg).

For an upper GI you drink this; for a lower GI...

well, we won't talk about that	barium.

The pilot of this show, set in North Carolina, played as part of "The Danny Thomas Show" in 1960	The Andy Griffith Show.

Condition of the skunk in the title of the following 1973 Top 20 hit:  "Take a whiff on me, that ain't no rose! / Roll up yer window and hold yer nose"	dead and in the middle of the road.

This word on the label signifies that vitamins have been added to milk	fortified.

You can spend the night in a Victorian style railroad car at the Choo Choo Hilton in this city	Chattanooga.

To test for this, the eyeball is anesthetized & a pressure gauge is placed on the front of the eye	glaucoma.

He was a regular on Danny Kaye's, Carol Burnett's & Tim Conway's variety shows	Harvey Korman.

Skunks are the major carriers of this disease in the continental U.S.	rabies.

The 2 states that border no other states	Alaska & Hawaii.

In 1772 James Boswell told this author he intended to write his biography	Doctor Samuel Johnson.

Count Rumford, who died in 1814, invented the drip version of this	the coffee maker (the coffee pot accepted).

Carrie Leigh hopped out of this man's mansion & married an antique dealer, quick as a bunny	Hugh Hefner.

Heavy casualties at Shiloh led to calls for his firing, but Lincoln said, "I can't spare this man; he fights"	Grant.

Late designer whose perfumes are sold by the numbers: No.

5.

No.

19 & No.

22	(Coco) Chanel.

Of Colorado, New Mexico or Arizona, the state where the Rio Grande begins	Colorado.

The Baconian theory expounds this	that Francis Bacon wrote Shakespeare's plays.

Eli Whitney's nephew invented a crusher used to grind up rock for surfacing these	roads.

This "Bewitch"ing actress was the 3rd wife of Oscar winner Gig Young	Elizabeth Montgomery.

This battle was Lee's last major offensive	Gettysburg.

Mimosa, mayflower & musk mingle in this, Yves St.

Laurent's "capital" perfume	Paris.

Besides X,Y & Z, 2 of the 3 consonants that don't begin a state's name	J & Q (& B).

Among his historical novels are "I, Claudius" & "Claudius the God"	Robert Graves.

A fault in the rotation speed of this device produces a sound called a "wow"	a turntable.

Drama coach Uta Hagen was his 1st wife & singer Rosemary Clooney his 3rd	Jos Ferrer.

Northerners who sought advantage in the post-war South were said to tote their belongings in these	carpetbags.

Though it has the same name, Benetton's perfume wasn't named for this controversial Sean Penn film	Colors.

The last major land battle of the Revolutionary War took place in this state	Virginia.

Since the beadle named his waifs alphabetically, this character came between Swubble & Unwin	(Oliver) Twist.

The "D" in radar stands for this	detection.

Of the original stars of "Mission: Impossible", the 2 who were married to each other	(Barbara) Bain & (Martin) Landau.

In Sherman's famous "march to the sea", this seaport city was his goal	Savannah, Georgia.

The 2 perfumes mentioned in Matthew 2:11	frankincense & myrrh.

This state got its nickname, "Badger State", from the 1820s miners who dug into its hillsides	Wisconsin.

In an Oliver Goldsmith work, Dr.

Primrose is the vicar of this parish	Wakefield.

Name given to the simplest electron tubes, as they have just 2 main parts, a plate & an emitter	a diode.

1 of the 3 men whom Lincoln defeated in the 1860 presidential election	Breckenridge (or Douglas or Bell).

Bulgaria is the chief producer of this perfume oil obtained by passing steam thru rose petals	attar (of roses).

Sputnik was the Soviet's 1st satellite, while this was ours	Explorer.

This term for a rural white southerner was originally applied to sunburned agricultural workers	a redneck.

The fans of this radio personality call themselves dittoheads to signify that they agree with his opinion	Rush Limbaugh.

Surprisingly, in the 1990s, this retailer moved its HQ from its tall tower in Chicago to a lowrise in the suburbs	Sears Roebuck.

Bermuda's almost due east of this state's Cape Hatteras	North Carolina.

Metallic distinction of a CD that's sold 1 million copies	platinum.

This type of "domain" could lose you your house if the government needs your land, yo	eminent.

Robert & Helen Lynd based their "Middletown" studies on Muncie in this state	Indiana.

(Hi, I'm Christie Whitman.)  I don't believe in political quid pro quo, but after his endorsement, I named a rest stop toilet for this radio personality	Howard Stern.

Since 1988 J.C.

Penney has been firmly planted in Plano in this state	Texas.

The cahow, or Bermuda petrel, a type of this, breeds only in Bermuda	a bird.

Of 2 million, 20 million or 200 million, the length in years of one trip around the galaxy's center by our sun	200 million.

"It's" one of these "that blows nobody any good"	an ill wind.

The sum of the customs & beliefs that distinguish one group from another; the hippies formed a "counter" one	a culture.

She's from Brooklyn, has a Ph.D.

in physiology & is Deryk's mom	Dr.

Laura.

First the "E"s were sold, then its Houston HQ building was auctioned off in December 2003 for $55.5 million	Enron.

Bermuda uses this basic unit of currency	the dollar.

Like Chico in "Animal Crackers", who got paid more for not performing, she got millions from Virgin not to sing	Mariah Carey.

It's wack but ESPN dropped the downhill racing style of this type of bicycle from its X Games in 2004	BMX.

10,000 years ago all societies were these, named from the way they collected animals, fruit, etc.

for food	hunter-gatherers.

This "idol" worshipper replaced Casey Kasem as host of "American Top 40"	Ryan Seacrest.

The Ford Motor Company has long been headquartered in this city that adjoins Detroit	Dearborn.

The first settlement in 1609 resulted from this event, maybe the one depicted in the first scene of "The Tempest"	a shipwreck.

It was the "grateful" title of philanthropist Percy Ross' syndicated radio show & newspaper column	Thanks a Million.

Lack of movement in traffic--especially at an intersection or in politics	gridlock.

Someone who hates humanity; Moliere's Alceste turned into a title one	a misanthrope.

Tavis Smiley launched this network's first national show to originate from Los Angeles	NPR.

Where on earth is Earthlink headquartered?  In this city, same as Coca-Cola	Atlanta.

Alexander or Linda could help you with the name of this capital	Hamilton.

"What Are You Doing After the Orgy?" is a book by this man who played a millionaire on "Gilligan's Island"	Jim Backus.

Completed in 1955, this bridge crosses the Hudson near Nyack	the Tappan Zee.

In 1953 Eisenhower proposed to the U.N.

a plan of "Atoms for" this	Peace.

Snowboarding is often featured in ads for this Pepsico soda with a lofty name	Mountain Dew.

It was Wolfe who first predicted that the 1970s "Will come to be known as" this "decade"	the Me Decade.

2 of the 3 illnesses for which a DPT vaccination provides immunity	diphtheria and pertussis (also, tetanus).

Benjamin Guggenheim made sure to dress in his evening clothes before going down with this ship in 1912	the Titanic.

This South American country does not border Brazil	Ecuador.

The group seen here is discussing the merits of this room they are looking at	a kitchen.

An off-balance rider is said to be "rolling down" these, from the flailing motion of the arms	windows.

In a piece of stock car racing, Wolfe introduced to written English this 3-word phrase for a solid Southern male	a good old boy.

HRT is this kind of therapy; the use of it by menopausal women has recently been questioned	hormone replacement therapy.

Patriarch Meyer moved from Switzerland to the U.S.

in 1847 & set up shop in this Pennsylvania city	Philadelphia.

Before going bankrupt in 1989, this airline tried selling $12 plane tickets between Boston & New York	Eastern (Airlines).

A 1954 code trying to stop juvenile delinquency said "horror" or "terror" could not be used in titles of these	comics.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew snowboards down Mammoth Mountain.)  If you're doing well by cutting up the slopes, you could be called one of these, not to be confused with an office machine	a shredder.

"The Right Stuff" tells of how this man broke the sound barrier with 2 broken ribs from a drunken horseback ride	Chuck Yeager.

CTS, carpal tunnel syndrome, can be an RSI, this kind of injury	repetitive stress injury.

For Daniel, it was all mine, mine, mine; tin in Bolivia & this in Alaska	gold.

Alexander Pope once cracked, "The vulgar boil, the learned roast" one of these, maybe for breakfast	an egg.

In early 1951 TV viewers were riveted watching the Kefauver committee's look into this in America	organized crime.

Like skateboarders, snowboarders perform in a U-shaped structure called this	a half-pipe.

Wolfe coined the term "radical" this in a story on a party for the Black Panthers thrown by Leonard Bernstein	chic.

I.D.

stands for this specialty that focuses on illnesses like viral hepatitis	infectious disease.

In the 2000 film "Pollock", Amy Madigan played this art patron	Peggy Guggenheim.

In 1974 Spokane's Cannon Island was the site of this, which featured an environmental theme	an expo.

The accuracy of the Quartz clock was surpassed in 1955 by one using this element, Cs	Cesium.

Stances include regular, goofy foot & this one that angles the toes of both feet in opposite directions	duck foot.

It's Wolfe's 1968 book about Ken Kesey & friends' cross-country journey	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.

A CAT scan is computerized axial this kind of imaging	tomography.

The Guggenheim Foundation is the assignee of the patents of this rocket pioneer; it had financed him in the 1940s	Robert Goddard.

Philosophy branch that studies the nature & foundations of knowledge	epistemology.

The only Oscar winner also to win a Nobel Prize, this European won a 1938 Oscar for adapting his own play	George Bernard Shaw.

"The Rome of the North" is how famed sculptor Rodin described this Czech capital	Prague.

Some 1 million spectators surrounded this space center to watch the lift-off	Cape Kennedy.

"Call him" the narrator of "Moby Dick"	Ishmael.

In 1962, "Mr.

Hobbs Took" this	A Vacation.

This cut is a pig's hind leg above the hock	ham.

Books about him were written by Plato & Xenophon, both students of his	Socrates.

Foreign embassies are located in Jiddah, some 500 miles from this country's capital, Riyadh	Saudi Arabia.

"Peaceful" site on the moon where the lunar module touched down	the Sea of Tranquility.

ABC radio commentator who tells "The Rest of the Story"	Paul Harvey.

Though Diane Keaton never found the title character in this 1977 film, she found someone really nuts	Looking for Mr.

Goodbar.

A long-standing tradition in France, hippophagy is the consumption of this	horse.

This Hebrew king taxed his people into rebellion, which may not have been too wise	Solomon.

"From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli" refers to the capitals of these two countries	Mexico & Libya.

Astronomic name for the booster rocket used to power the launch	Saturn.

Some sources say it was Carnegie Hall; others say it was the '67 Newport Festival where he first sang "Alice's Restaurant"	Arlo Guthrie.

Of James Cagney, Henry Fonda or Jack Lemmon, the one who won an Oscar for "Mr.

Roberts"	Jack Lemmon.

These gastropods are sometimes fed aromatic herbs to give them a special savor	snail.

The period during which he ruled is often referred to as "The Golden Age of Athens"	Pericles.

Founded in 1496 by Columbus's brother, this Dominican capitol is the oldest European city in the new world	Santo Domingo.

The three crew members of Apollo 11	Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins.

In addition to her "Fairie Tale Theatre", she now has "Tall Tales and Legends" playing on cable	Shelly Duvall.

Of this 1939 film, the "New York Times" said "More fun even than the Senate itself!"	Mr.

Smith Goes to Washington.

One of the largest edible fish, these huge flatfish can measure over 5 X 10 feet and can exceed 700 pounds	halibut.

Uncle of Caligula and stepfather of Nero, this Roman emperor was poisoned by his wife, Nero's mother	Claudius.

Construction of this planned Asian capital began in 1912; the government was moved there in 1931	New Delhi, India.

While the lunar lander was code-named "Eagle", the command module was code-named this	Columbia.

He wrote two collections of modern fables, several fairytales, and "My World and Welcome to It"	James Thurber.

"Mr.

Pennypacker", "Mr.

Scoutmaster", and "Mr.

Belvedere" are some of his title characters	Clifton Webb.

Used to cure many meats including bacon, its the creosote and formaldehyde in this that help preserve things	smoke.

In the 6th century B.C., he conquered Babylon and made Persia the greatest empire in the world	Cyrus the Great.

A shotgun's powerful recoil is an example of his third law of motion	Isaac Newton.

General whose Presidential campaign song was written by Irving Berlin	Dwight Eisenhower.

The word "pram" is short for this	parambulator.

The sonnet originated in this country with such poets as Guitoni D'Arretzo	Italy.

It consists of two red triangles outlined in blue with white symbols of the sun and the moon	the flag of Nepal.

In 1952, she sprang her "Mousetrap"	Agatha Christie.

The term horsepower came about when James Watt compared work done by a horse to work done by this	steam engine.

All elected Presidents who are members of this party died in office	Whig.

Movie that featured the following music	Picnic.

These funny five-line verses often end with the name of a place; or, a place in Ireland	Limerick.

At Lumbini, you can visit the birthplace of this "Enlightened One"	Buddha.

She played "Hamlet" at the age of 73 and a Vulcan high priestess in "Star Trek III"	Dame Judith Anderson.

If it were not for the retarding influence of this, raindrops would attain bullet-like speeds	the atmosphere.

This Iowan was the first President born west of the Mississippi	Herbert Hoover.

This extinct early man is known from fossils found at Chukutien	Peking Man.

A deliberate violation of the rules of rhyming or grammar, not a little piece of paper from the DMV	poetic license.

This Sherpa who went to the top of the world with Edmund Hillary died in 1986 at the age of 72	Tenzing Norgay.

She helped her husband survive an attempted assassination & was Nureyev's partner for over fifteen years	Dame Margot Fonteyn.

Pulling the cloth off a table without disturbing the dishes is the principle of this	inertia.

The last President to sport a moustache or beard while in office	William Howard Taft.

As being of great price purchased with all she had, Hester Prynne named her child this	Pearl.

16th century poet who perfected in "The Faerie Queene" the stanza named for him	Edmund Spenser.

"Wooden temple", the meaning of this city's name, refers to the 400-year old one in its central square	Katmandu.

She starred as Cleopatra and Olivier's Juliet, long before booking "A Passage to India"	Dame Peggy Ashcroft.

Term for the speed of a body in a specified direction	velocity.

The "5440' or Fight" fever over Oregon helped elect this president, the only one ever to be speaker of the U.S.

House	James K.

Polk.

The small cogwheel that engages a larger cogwheel	pinion.

It's an echoic term for words like hiss that imitate an actual sound	onomatopeia.

Told to jump from 600 feet, these tough Nepalese soldiers, not knowing they'd get chutes, said 300 feet was easier	Gurkhas.

This Maori diva from New Zealand sang with Nelson Riddle and at Prince Charles's wedding	Kiri Te Kanawa.

The first verse of this book says, "There was a man in the land of Uz that feared God and eschewed evil"	Job.

Telemachus was this long lost traveler's faithful son	Odysseus.

Yo, this notorious rapper's second posthumous No.

1 hit single was 1997's "Mo Money Mo Problems"	Notorious B.I.G..

Stevie Winwood, Stevie Nicks, Stevie Wonder	Stevie Nicks.

Newly born calves of this "colorful" mammal can measure 28 feet in length & weigh up to 3 tons	the blue whale.

Romance is a perfume from this designer whom you might call a major "polo" player	Ralph Lauren.

Before the grand jury, Bill Clinton said, "It depends on...your definition of" this word	"is".

Of a dryad, a naiad or an oread, she's the water nymph	a naiad.

This huge hit by Jay-Z samples a song from the musical "Annie"	"Hard Knock Life".

Robin Leach, Robin Givens, Robin Cook	Robin Givens.

No longer used in Thailand to haul teak from the jungle, these animals are being trained to paint	an elephant.

Wallace might know this term for a metal eyelet mainly used on belts but also seen on hems & cuffs	a grommet.

"Ut" used to be used for the first or key note of the musical scale; this has replaced it	do.

Hard-partyin' half-man, half-goat creatures of Greek mythology	a satyr.

This "King of Crunk" is not to be confused with Lil' Wayne	Lil Jon.

Pat Leahy, Pat Buchanan, Pat Nixon	Pat Nixon.

High in Omega-3 fatty acids, oils from these creatures have been shown to reduce high levels of triglycerides	fish.

The length of these ladylike accessories is denoted by buttons; 16-button ones are formal length	gloves.

An Italian river, or the red Teletubby	Po.

The Myrmidons were this great hero's brutal cohorts in the Trojan War	Achilles.

A TV show on E! chronicles the "Father Hood" of this rap star	Snoop Dogg.

Kim Campbell, Kim Philby, Kim Jong Il	Kim Campbell.

Because hippo teeth are made of this, they won't yellow & were once a popular source for false teeth	ivory.

Feline name for the full-body stocking made popular by Diana Rigg on "The Avengers"	a catsuit.

Don't have a cow, man, it's just the 12th letter of the Greek alphabet	mu.

This mythological sculptor tragically fell in love with a beautiful statue he had carved	Pygmalion.

Group that includes members Krayzie Bone, Layzie Bone & Wish Bone	Bone Thugs-n-Harmony.

P.D.

James, G.K.

Chesterton, A.A.

Milne	P.D.

James.

This clam named for a sharp instrument can burrow almost as fast as you can shovel	a razor clam.

In the 1800s, it was fashionable to wear a cap named for this woman who stabbed Jean-Paul Marat	Charlotte Corday.

In British slang this word alone means thank you; 2 together means good-bye	ta.

Like mom like son: sadly, her son Rajiv was also assassinated	Indira Gandhi.

This singer's films include the westerns "Flaming Star", "Charro!" & "Love Me Tender"	Elvis Presley.

This Chinese dynasty that reigned from 1368 to 1644 was known for beautiful vases	Ming.

It can mean any computer used by an individual, or an IBM-type machine as opposed to a Mac	a P.C..

In May 1988, after 8 years of fighting there, the Soviet army began withdrawing from this country	Afghanistan.

Any dry red table wine may be called this even if it doesn't come from the French region of the same name	Burgundy.

In 1958 he launched his Great Leap Forward program; it was a great disaster	Mao.

It's the type of transport in the title of John Wayne's 1939 breakout film	a stagecoach.

Dante Gabriel Rossetti wanted to take art back to "pre-" this Renaissance master born in 1483	Raphael.

You can't have too much RAM, which stands for this	random-access memory.

This island that gained independence from Denmark in 1944 is below the Arctic Circle	Iceland.

In 1403 Venice established the first maritime quarantine station to prevent this deadly disease	the bubonic plague.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents from Lima, Peru.)  From 1990 to 2000, the palace behind me, here in Lima, was the home of this man, the first of Japanese descent to head another country	(Alberto) Fujimori.

He won his first Oscar for directing "Unforgiven"	Clint Eastwood.

We're not joshing--in 1769 this portrait painter got knighted	(Joshua) Reynolds.

This unit equals about 1,000 megabytes, or about half a million pages of text	a gigabyte.

This African country may have been first settled by Phoenicians as early as the 12th century B.C.	Tunisia.

Government ones of these include of Indian Affairs & of the Census	Bureaus.

Wearing the hat of Chancellor for over 15 years, he was Germany's longest-serving leader since Bismarck	Helmut Kohl.

This Dustin Hoffman title character was also known as Jack Crabb & the Soda Pop Kid	Little Big Man.

Roger Fry of the Met coined this term for the works of artists like Cezanne & Gauguin	Postimpressionist.

In the acronym BIOS, these 2 words come between "basic" & "system"	input & output.

Russia's longest border is not with China but with this "stan"	Kazakhstan.

Established in 1881, The Wharton School at the U.

of Pennsylvania was the world's first collegiate school of this	business.

His original name was Tafari Makonnen, but he ruled his country under this name	Haile Selassie.

Dag nabbit! He's the perennial sidekick who won 3 Oscars, including one for 1940's "The Westerner"	Walter Brennan.

"The Regatta at Argenteuil" shows this Frenchman's love of water subjects, like lilies	Monet.

In 1980 Luis Garcia Meza took power in this landlocked S.

Amer.

country that's had more than 180 coups in its history	Bolivia.

From the Greek for "herdsman", it means pastoral or idyllic	bucolic.

A song by this artist hit No.

1 in 1999, making her at age 52 the oldest female to have a Billboard No.

1 single	Cher.

The flowers of this lawn weed, Taraxacum oficinale, are sometimes used to make wine	dandelions.

(Jon of the Clue Crew delivers the clue from the drummer's throne.)  A common rock & roll pattern is this one which stresses the 2nd and 4th beat; it's also the title of a movie about the Beatles	backbeat.

Iberia Airlines	Spain.

In "La Boutique Fantasque", dolls come to life & perform this high-kicking, skirt-swooshing dance	Can-can.

At his death in 1971, there were more than 1,600 department stores bearing his name	J.C.

Penney.

An important person, perhaps with an elaborate toupee	bigwig.

The common species of this prairie flower, Helianthus annuus, can reach a height of 15 feet	sunflower.

(Jon of the Clue Crew peers down between the cymbals.) Playing triplets--three strokes for every two notes--was a trademark of this late Led Zeppellin drummer	John Bonham.

Aer Lingus	Ireland.

Every "Psycho" knows that Matthew Bourne's ballet "Deadly Serious" is an homage to this film director	Alfred Hitchcock.

He's the taller of the two gentlemen in the photo seen here	P.T.

Barnum.

I've come to the ashram so this person can show me the unreality of material things -- oops, I scratched his Mercedes	guru.

About 3/4 of U.S.

plantings of this palm fruit are of the Deglet Noor, a semidry variety	dates.

(Jon of the Clue Crew sticks with his drums--& drums with his sticks.) Playing this gives me an explosive sound on the snare drum; to help out a comedian's lame joke combine it with a cymbal crash	a rimshot.

Olympic Airlines	Greece.

The Roanoke Ballet's dancers raced around with logos on their unitards in a ballet named for this auto assoc.	NASCAR.

In 1930 he directed his first talkie, "Abraham Lincoln", starring Walter Huston	D.W.

Griffith.

Nicole Kidman is one; so was Lucille Ball & Vincent Van Gogh	redhead.

Reproducing by means of spores, the only tree with no flowers, fruits or seeds is called the tree type of this	fern.

(Jon of the Clue Crew subs on the drum set.)  After you get into a groove, now & again throw in this; as the name suggests its for when there's an empty space in the music	a fill.

Belavia (Its first terminal was in Minsk)	Belarus.

The music of film composer Alex North drives the ballet based on this play about Stanley Kowalski	"A Streetcar Named Desire".

He designed the building for the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame	I.M.

Pei.

In Manhattan, going from Central Park to Chelsea is heading this way	downtown.

Prized for its oil, this evergreen shrub of the American southwest is also known as the goat nut	Jojoba.

(Jon of the Clue Crew delivers the final clue of the category.)  It's the rhyming phrase for a steady rhythm that hits the bass drum on each quarter note	four-on-the-floor.

Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatshappij (you might know it by its abbreviation)	The Netherlands (KLM).

Dizzy Gillespie's music is also featured in it, but the ballet "For 'Bird' - With Love" is a tribute to him	Charlie Parker.

A visit to the Marabar Caves is a turning point in his novel "A Passage to India"	E.M.

Forster.

This term for empty words or nonsense was originally a trick to gain applause	claptrap.

Genesis calls it "the salt sea" perhaps because its salinity reaches 4 times that of ocean water	the Dead Sea.

Liza Minnelli	Judy Garland.

You might see Bob Woodward during your walking tour of this publication's building on 15th Street N.W.	the Washington Post.

"His pride had cast him out from heaven, with all his host of rebel angels"	Milton.

Ths underwear maker's logo contains fig leaves, an apple & different types of grapes	Fruit of the Loom.

It's an adjective meaning really, really angry	wrathful.

This mount "as altogether on a smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire"	Sinai.

Kate Hudson	Goldie Hawn.

The Peacock room at the Freer Gallery shows the fun-loving side of this artist known for that dour depiction of mama	Whistler.

"Do not go gentle into that good night, old age should burn and rave at close of day"	Dylan Thomas.

A wine known as Lacrima Christi, or "tears of Christ" is made from grapes grown on the slopes of this Italian volcano	Vesuvius.

On election night 2000, this newsman spouted lines like "Bush will be madder than a rained-on rooster"	Dan Rather.

Lying at the foot of the mount of olives, this garden was the site where Jesus was betrayed & arrested	Gethsemane.

Gwyneth Paltrow	Blythe Danner.

The museum that's now the Smithsonian's Arts & Industries Bldg.

was the site of this man's 1881 inaugural ball	Garfield.

"I hear American singing, the varied carols I hear"	Walt Whitman.

In an Aesop fable, this animal decides the grapes he can't reach must therefore be sour	a fox.

For many, this Johannesburg-born actor will forever be the definitive Sherlock Holmes	Basil Rathbone.

In Ezekiel this capital of Egypt is called Noph, & the Lord promises to "destroy the idols" there (he didn't mean Elvis)	Memphis.

Melanie Griffith	Tippi Hedren.

It was once known as "Presidents Park" but perhaps this name for it looks better on a "Marquis"	Lafayette Park.

"So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee"	Shakespeare.

In 1962 this man organized migrant grape pickers into what became known as the United Farm Workers	Cesar Chavez.

Persian religious leader AKA Zoroaster	Zarathustra.

In the Song of Solomon, a bride refers to herself as "the rose of" this plain between Joppa & Mount Carmel	Sharon.

Mariska Hargitay	Jayne Mansfield.

This Frenchman who planned D.C.

had such a "terrible" temperament that he was dismissed in 1792	Pierre L'Enfant.

"Hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul and sings the tune without the words"	Emily Dickinson.

A popular grape  used in making raisins is this variety that shares its name with the capital of Oman	Muscat.

Basement beerhall in Bavaria	rathskeller.

The C.A.P., or Common Agricultural Policy, accounts for almost half the budget of this 25-nation organization	the European Union.

Make a trek to Utrecht & you'll find yourself in this country	Netherlands.

Widely hunted for their hides, the American, Cuban & Nile species of this reptile are now in danger	Crocodile.

The Houses of Lancaster & York used different colored types of these flowers as their symbols	Roses.

She debuted in a bit part as Woody Allen's date in "Annie Hall" 2 years before "Alien" made her a star	Sigourney Weaver.

On "Saturday Night Live", William Shatner told attendees at this type of convention, "Get a life!"	Star Trek.

It "makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise"	"Early to bed and early to rise".

On the first Monday in June, this Kiwi country celebrates the Queen's birthday, the queen being Elizabeth	New Zealand.

Because it dips its food in water, it has the scientific name Lotor, which means "washer"	Raccoon.

He was thick-skulled, heavy-browed, about 5 feet tall & lived in Germany about 80,000 years ago	Neanderthal Man.

This half-sister of country singer Wynonna first hit the big screen in the 1992 comedy "Kuffs"	Ashley Judd.

New England Federalists convened in Hartford in 1814 to denounce this war	War of 1812.

In "The Wizard of Oz", Dorothy clicks her heels & repeats this before she's whisked back to Kansas	"There's no place like home".

There are thousands of temples & shrines in this country's Katmandu Valley	Nepal.

Males of this duck-billed mammal have poison spurs on each hind foot that can kill small animals	Platypus.

The number of different hexagrams in the I Ching, or the number of squares on a checkerboard	64.

At 13 this actress with a weekday in her name starred in the 1956 classic "Rock, Rock, Rock!"	Tuesday Weld.

In the film "Chasing Amy", boy meets girl at a convention for artists & fans of these	Comic books.

It "seldom knocks twice", so make the most of it	Opportunity.

Homeland of Edvards Munch & Grieg	Norway.

The barn species of this bird is sometimes called monkey-faced due to its simian features	Owl.

When his friend became Pope in 1623, he thought he'd be allowed to discuss his heliocentric theory	Galileo.

The Al Pacino legal drama "...And Justice for All" marked the screen debut of this actor, later TV's "Coach"	Craig T.

Nelson.

(Hi, I'm Paula Poundstone)  I heard stories of Bob Dole in a towel at the 1996 Republican Convention in this California city	San Diego.

"Better the foot slip than" this body part	Tongue/lip.

It became fully independent of South Africa March 21, 1990	Namibia.

The "great" species of this slender predatory fish seen here has been called the "Tiger of the Sea"	Barracuda.

Native Americans grew these together with corn & at harvest time combined them into "M'sickquatash"	Lima beans.

This son of Colleen Dewhurst & George C.

Scott debuted in the 1988 film "Five Corners"	Campbell Scott.

The Annapolis Convention of 1786 did nothing but suggest holding this convention in Philadelphia	Constitutional Convention.

"Manus manum lavat" is the Latin equivalent of this proverb	"One hand washes the other".

British commander Sir Edward Pakenham was killed in this battle fought 2 weeks after the War of 1812	Battle of New Orleans.

Sheep Meadow & the Turtle Pond can be found in this 843-acre public playground	Central Park.

The ball used in this sport is about 11 inches long & about 7 inches wide at the center	Football.

"Every Who down in Who-ville liked Christmas a lot..."	How the Grinch Stole Christmas!.

It precedes label, suit & Jack	Union.

It's also called Chester cheese, & some people think it's the cat's meow	Cheshire cheese.

To reach eastern markets in the 1800s, Texas drovers brought their cattle to Kansas via this trail	the Chisholm Trail.

One World Trade Center is the tallest building in the city; this is the second tallest	Two World Trade Center.

On Sept.

23, 1926 this heavyweight boxing champ lost his title to Gene Tunney in a decision	Jack Dempsey.

"True!-Nervous-very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why will you say that I am mad?"	"The Tell-Tale Heart".

It may be a mischievous scamp, or a "sea" creature	Urchin.

Parmesan is named for Parma, & this other grated cheese is named for Italy's capital	Romano.

On November 14, 1889, the New York World called her trip, "The Longest Journey Known to Mankind"	Nellie Bly.

A mast to moor dirigibles was added to this skyscraper, but only one ever moored successfully	Empire State Building.

Named for a U.S.

doubles champ, this cup is presented to the winner of a 16-team men's tennis tourney	Davis Cup.

"It was a pleasure to burn."	"Fahrenheit 451".

In legend, this mythical beast could purify poisoned water with its single horn	Unicorn.

The "baby" type of this Dutch cheese, that's similar to Edam, is usually encased in red wax	Gouda.

On Mar.

27, 1964 this largest Alaska city was hit by an 8.4 earthquake	Anchorage.

He was inaugurated for his second time as mayor of New York City January 1, 1998	Rudolph Giuliani.

(Hi, I'm Greg Gumbel)  During his 26-year career Sparky Anderson managed the Cincinnati Reds to 4 NL titles & this team to 1 AL championship	Detroit Tigers.

"All happy families are alike but an unhappy family is unhappy after its own fashion."	"Anna Karenina".

An entrepreneur who's launching a new enterprise, or a funeral director	Undertaker.

This most famous Greek cheese is sometimes described as "pickled" because it's cured in brine	Feta.

In 1787 Arthur St.

Clair became the first governor of this vast territory north of the Ohio River	Northwest Territory.

"Give My Regards to" this Broadway legend whose statue in Times Square is seen here:	George M.

Cohan.

In 1973 Ron Turcotte rode this horse to the first Triple Crown victory in 25 years	Secretariat.

"My mother died.

Today, or maybe it was yesterday."	"The Stranger".

This citrus fruit from Jamaica is named for its lack of physical beauty	Ugli fruit.

Samsoe is a Swiss-style cow's milk cheese named for an island in this Scandinavian country	Denmark.

Macbeth says to this character, "Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold"	Banquo's ghost.

On December 19 the people of this U.S.

state celebrate Princess Bernice Pauahi Bishop's birthday	Hawaii.

In 1967 this New York Jets quarterback became the first pro to pass for more than 4,000 yards in a season	Joe Namath.

The name of this food, not a true grain, comes from the Dutch meaning "beech wheat"	buckwheat.

On April 5, 1614, in Jamestown, she married John Rolfe	Pocahontas.

Since 1908 this group has distributed over 26 million Bibles to hotels & other institutions	Gideon.

It's the 4-letter word that "makes the world go round"	love.

In 1986 this New York capital celebrated the 300th anniversary of its charter as a city	Albany.

Founded in 1897, it's the world's oldest annual marathon	the Boston Marathon.

The rolled form of this grain cooks in about 5 minutes; the steel-cut takes much longer	oats.

Anna Ivanovna, empress of Russia from 1730 to 1740, was the niece of this great ruler	Peter the Great.

It's what the R stands for in AARP	retired.

There's "no time like" this	the present.

This U.S.

first lady once taught dance in Grand Rapids	Betty Ford.

In 1991, after 12 seasons at the Salt Palace, this NBA team moved its home games to the Delta Center	the Utah Jazz.

Basmati, an aromatic type of this grain, is grown in India	rice.

After 5 years in office, she resigned as Israeli prime minister in 1974	Golda Meir.

Not surprisingly, this organization, founded in 1884, maintains one of the world's finest reference libraries on dogs	the American Kennel Club.

It's the type of pot that "never boils"	a watched pot.

Lancaster, which has the largest stockyards east of Chicago, was this state's capital from 1799 to 1812	Pennsylvania.

In 1992 Viktor Petrenko won the world championship in this sport	ice skating (men's figure skating).

Millet seed, an important food for North Africans, is most often fed to these pets in the U.S.	birds.

The proceeds from some of her souvenir hatchets helped fund a home for wives of alcoholics	Carrie Nation.

Members of this volunteer crime-fighting organization are famous for wearing red berets	the Guardian Angels.

It "comes not alone" & "makes waste"	haste.

This Connecticut city famous for its university is nicknamed "Elm City" because it once had many elm-lined streets	New Haven.

During his 1955-1966 career, this Dodger pitcher averaged 9.28 strikeouts per 9 innings	(Sandy) Koufax.

The pot type of this grain retains more of the bran than the pearl type	barley.

In 1813 this mistress of the late Lord Nelson was imprisoned for debt	Lady Hamilton.

During Egypt's suspension from this group, 1979-1989, its headquarters was located in Tunisia	the Arab League.

"Every" one of these "fits not every foot"	a shoe.

A smaller canal connecting to this river brings fresh water to the Suez Canal	the Nile.

This author of "The Time Machine" coined the phrase "the war that will end war"	H.G.

Wells.

On December 10 he announced he'd leave his Hyde Park estate & its papers & books to the U.S.

government	FDR.

Barbra Streisand introduced the song "People" in this musical	Funny Girl.

Many things in Hong Kong are named for this queen, including the mountain peak on Hong Kong island	Victoria.

This author gave us the line "I'll make him an offer he can't refuse"	(Mario) Puzo.

By accepting his membership dues, the League of Nations recognized him as emperor of Ethiopia	Haile Selassie.

In 1994 Brooke Shields made her Broadway debut as Betty Rizzo in this musical	Grease.

Lake Avernus in Campania in this country was believed by the ancients to be the entrance to Hades	Italy.

The U.S.

pavilion at Montreal's Expo 67 was covered by one of these	a geodesic dome.

This "Return of the Native" author's first novel, "Desperate Remedies", was published in 1871	Thomas Hardy.

17 acres surrounding her cottage were transferred to the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust	Anne Hathaway.

1992's "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh!" was inspired by the comic songs of this man	Allan Sherman.

This father of Andrew Wyeth illustrated more than 20 juvenile classics, including "Treasure Island"	N.C.

Wyeth.

The western portion of the Baltic island of Usedom belongs to Germany; the eastern, to this country	Poland.

Lighter than steel, this metal is also associated with the modernist style of the '20s & '30s	aluminum.

This Dr.

Dolittle creator studied civil engineering at M.I.T.	Hugh Lofting.

Returning from Ireland to NYC in August, this aviator was given a parade downer, up Broadway	"Wrong Way" Corrigan.

1966 Jerry Herman musical that features the following:  "For we need a little Christmas / Right this very minute / Candles in the window / Carols at the spinet / Yes, we need a little Christmas / Right this very minute / It hasn't snowed a single flurry / But Santa, dear, we're in a hurry / So climb down the chimney / Put up the brightest string of lights I've ever seen..."	Mame.

Born in South Carolina in 1782, he was known as a "war hawk" because he supported the War of 1812	John C.

Calhoun.

Boothia Peninsula in this country is the former location of the north magnetic pole	Canada.

The firm of Piano & Rogers is famous for this high-tech Paris landmark built 1971-77	the Pompidou Centre.

1 of only 3 authors to win 2 Pulitzer Prizes for Fiction	(1 of) Faulkner, Tarkington & John Updike.

On April 27, 1938 Countess Geraldine Apponyi of Hungary married King Zog of this country	Albania.

"Cabaret" was based partly on this 1951 play by John Van Druten	I Am a Camera.

When the parents of this "pathfinder" ran off together, his mother was still legally married to another man	John C.

Fremont.

Oscar Collazo, serving a life sentence for his assassination attempt on this president, was released in 1979	Harry Truman.

In January 1970 Boeing introduced this first wide-bodied jumbo jet; it could seat up to 452 passengers	747.

Gregory Maguire's novel "Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister" is a revision of this fairy tale	"Cinderella".

1975: "I must be crazy to be in a looney bin like this"	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.

This city's Atomic Bomb Dome, a structure left unrebuilt after WWII, has become a symbol of the peace movement	Hiroshima.

This pizza herb was virtually unknown to Americans until WWII soldiers came home & raved about it	oregano.

A Baskin-Robbins program, or an expression meaning "popular for right now"	flavor of the month.

BUD is the New York Stock Exchange symbol for this brewing company	Anheuser-Busch.

He not only appeared on the cover of some 350 romance novels, he's written ones like "Rogue" & "Mysterious"	Fabio.

1980: "He-e-e-e-re's Johnny!"	The Shining.

The racing schooner Bluenose, depicted on Canada's 10-cent coin, has a replica in this Nova Scotian port	Halifax.

A popular soft drink "ale" is flavored with this spice whose name is from the Sanskrit for "horn root"	ginger.

In response to this Irish greeting, you can say, "And the rest of the day to yourself"	top of the morning.

This Dallas-based electronics firm started out as Geophysical Service, an oil exploration company	Texas Instruments.

Agatha Christie mystery in which an heiress is murdered on an Egyptian cruise	"Death on the Nile".

1992:  "You can't handle the truth!"	A Few Good Men.

Crossed by numerous canals, it's said that this German port has more bridges than Amsterdam & Venice combined	Hamburg.

The dried pods of a certain climbing orchid provide this flavoring	vanilla.

Quoting "Titanic", in 1998 Oscar-winning James Cameron exulted, "I'm" this	king of the world.

For over 75 years, Wrigley made only these 3 gums	Spearmint, Doublemint & Juicy Fruit.

Title that completes the line "Shoot all the bluejays you want, if you can hit 'em, but remember it's a sin..."	"To Kill A Mockingbird".

1974: "What makes you certain that your husband is, um, involved with someone?"	Chinatown.

This capital was founded by Sweden's King Gustav I Vasa in 1550	Helsinki, Finland.

In medieval Europe this poultry stuffing herb of the genus Salvia was thought to stimulate the mind	sage.

To make a favorable judgment when you're uncertain is to give someone this	benefit of the doubt.

In 1973 this then Memphis-based hotel chain opened its own university in Mississippi to train personnel	Holiday Inn.

This Ayn Rand novel tells the story of architect Howard Roark & Dominique Francon, the woman he loves	"The Fountainhead".

1994: "Just marking my territory"	Wolf.

It served as a dynastic capital in the 1800s & continued as the royal capital of Vietnam until 1945	Hue.

This spice that is sold in 2 varieties, Ceylon & Cassia, was once used in love potions	cinnamon.

In 1961 British critic Martin Esslin used this phrase to describe the plays of Beckett & Ionesco	theatre of the absurd.

The Einheriar were the dead warriors the Valkyries picked up & brought back to this hall where they were revived	Valhalla.

In 1981 the U.S.

government, with 560 million lbs.

of this dairy food in storage, released 30 million lbs.

to the needy	cheese.

In 1775 he & a group of axmen cleared & marked the Wilderness Road for the Transylvania Company	Daniel Boone.

5th, 50th & 500th are this type of number, as opposed to cardinal	ordinal.

In New Orleans a hero sandwich is called this	po boy.

He drafted the constitution of New York state & was appointed chief justice of the state in 1777	John Jay.

Roskva, the farmer's daughter, was always under the hammer as a personal assistant to this god	Thor.

Generally, a steer is a castrated bull used for food; this shorter word refers to one used as a draft animal	ox.

In the 1770s, this pamphleteer wrote "African Slavery in America", an article condemning slavery	Thomas Paine.

A theorem includes this series of steps, starting with a given & ending with a justified conclusion	proof.

It's the state flower of Delaware (not Georgia)	peach blossom.

He's the "Picture Perfect" actor seen here	Jay Mohr.

A never-ending supply of this better-than-beer drink was made by Heidrum, oddly a goat, not a bee	mead.

Spain, Italy & Greece are the leading producers of this liquid from the fruit of Olea europaea	olive oil.

In "The Federalist" No.

51, this future president put forth an argument for the separation of powers	James Madison.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew standing in front of a chalkboard)  From the Latin for "to turn upside down", the function g is described as this of the function f	inverse.

You can use this utensil to apply a glaze to breads & sweets before or after baking	pastry brush.

It's the magical group heard here ["This Magic Moment"]	Jay and the Americans.

Odin learned the secrets of these alphabetic symbols while hanging for 9 days on Yggdrasil, the world tree	runes.

The type of irrigation seen here, it was used in Israel to make the desert bloom	drip irrigation.

This Pennsylvanian's son William served as royal governor of New Jersey & remained loyal to the crown	Ben Franklin.

The term surd refers to irrational numbers like this number's square root, 1.7320508...	3.

Anna Pavlova or Dame Margot Fonteyn, for example	prima ballerina.

This child actor played Dennis the Menace on TV in the early '60s	Jay North.

Norse myth is big on trees; the first man & woman -- Ask & Embla -- were created out of these 2 species	ash & elm.

What do you do to wheat to get flour?  The answer is the name of this grain	millet.

Mary Hays received this pseudonym for aiding her husband & other soldiers during the Battle of Monmouth	Molly Pitcher.

A function's domain is the set of possible values of x; this is the set of possible values of y	range.

This Latin term used for some legal services means "for the good"	pro bono.

Born on the Six Nations Indian Reservation in Ontario, he played Tonto to Clayton Moore's Lone Ranger	Jay Silverheels.

In September 1941 this author christened the warship Atlanta, also known as "The Mighty A"	Margaret Mitchell.

Dating back at least 100 years, "drowning the shamrock", or going drinking, is a tradition on this holiday	St.

Patrick's Day.

In 1998 the magazine told of efforts to liquify this "cleanest of fossil fuels" for use in cars	natural gas.

This film about a flying elephant inspired a ride at Disneyland	Dumbo.

"Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears"	Julius Caesar.

Oliver Stone won an Oscar for his story about one of these title units in which he served in Vietnam	a platoon.

It's the casino game in which you'd hear someone say "Hit me"	blackjack.

Secretary of State William H.

Seward is honored on the last Monday in March in this state	Alaska.

SA's website's "Ask the Experts" column answers key questions like "Why does bruised fruit turn" this color	brown.

Chim-Chim Cheree!  This film featuring chimney sweeps swept up 13 Oscar nominations	Mary Poppins.

"Good-night, good-night!  Parting is such sweet sorrow that I shall say good-night till it be morrow"	Romeo and Juliet.

From the medieval Latin for "army", it's a large fleet like the one Admiral Howard faced in 1588	an armada.

It's the creature seen here who's particularly hard on her mate	a black widow spider.

Called the greatest 2 minutes in sports, it takes place on the first Saturday in May	the Kentucky Derby.

Magazine contributor Steven Chu won a Nobel Prize for slowing atoms with these light beams	lasers.

This 1961 film was the first to feature a magical substance called Flubber	The Absent-Minded Professor.

"Eye of newt and toe of frog, wool of bat and tongue of dog"	Macbeth.

3 brigades under 1 headquarters, or a math function	a division.

The Green Hornet's car, or Anna Sewell's horse	Black Beauty.

An ancient symbol of abundance, the cornucopia is often attached to this American holiday	Thanksgiving.

A steamy 1998 issue reports on sexual attraction in the orange sulphur species of this colorful insect	butterflies.

Much of the music for this 1959 film, including the song "Once Upon A Dream" was adapted from an 1890 ballet	Sleeping Beauty.

"Neither a borrower nor a lender be"	Hamlet (Polonius).

A group of cavalry, whether A, B, or "F"	a troop.

Early in his career, Burt Reynolds played Quint Asper, one of these on "Gunsmoke"	Blacksmith.

This city's Mississippi River Art Fair is held in the Mark Twain Historic District	Hannibal, Missouri.

To physicists, SOHO isn't a neighborhood but an observatory orbiting this body	the sun.

Among the babes in "Babes in Toyland" are Ann Jillian as Bo Peep & this Mouseketeer as Mary Contrary	Annette Funicello.

"The quality of mercy is not strained, it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath"	The Merchant of Venice.

Mod or not, it's usually 10 infantrymen headed by a staff sergeant	a squad.

Yo-ho, yo-ho!  His real name was believed to be Edward Teach	Blackbeard.

Preferring to go where the rain turns to snow, he wintered in Schruns while writing "The Sun Also Rises"	Ernest Hemingway.

Scholars link Egyptian creation myths to the sun apparently fertilizing this river's slime	the Nile.

This pitcher's "Orel" history continued in '98 with a new team, the Giants	Orel Hershiser.

Though derived from the same plant as opium, these seeds are non-narcotic	poppyseeds.

It's the only letter in "piano" that corresponds to a piano key	A.

This spy came a long way from her origins as the daughter of a Dutch hatter	Mata Hari.

Capital of Tyrol, it has hosted 2 Winter Olympics	Innsbruck.

According to the King James Version, God's first words quoted in the book of Genesis	"Let there be light".

In 1998 she turned 40 & played a 40-year-old in "How Stella Got Her Groove Back"	Angela Bassett.

The scientific name of this herb is Mentha piperita	peppermint.

Of the 2 types of piano keys in a Paul McCartney-Stevie Wonder hit, it's what G-flat is	ebony.

Teddy Roosevelt's grandson, CIA man Kermit, kept the Shah of this country on his throne in 1953	Iran.

This English king was held prisoner in 1193 in a castle above Durnstein, Austria	Richard the Lionhearted (on his way back from one of the Crusades).

In some Native American myths, this animal helps a deity create the world, with no help from the Acme Co.	a coyote.

(Hi, I'm Franklin Diaz-Chang, an astronaut on board the Space Shuttle Discovery.)  Oct.

1, 1998 is the 40th birthday of this government agency	NASA (the National Aeronautics and Space Administration).

This aromatic leaf, used to flavor meat, soups & stews, comes from a laurel tree	a bay leaf.

A 6-string guitar has 2 strings tuned to this note, each corresponding to a piano key	E.

Cuban refugee Antonio Prohias drew this MAD Magazine comic strip for 29 years	Spy vs.

Spy.

Africa's Fulani people, who are cattle herders, say everything came from a drop of this	milk.

A short called "Frankenweenie" helped launch the career of this "Edward Scissorhands" director	Tim Burton.

During the Middle Ages, merchants who adulterated this expensive yellow spice were burnt at the stake	saffron.

They're adjacent on the keyboard as well as in an abbreviation for a popular format of recorded music	C & D.

Spy Richard Sorge warned this Russian leader of Germany's WWII invasion but was ignored	Josef Stalin.

To the ancient Greeks, it was a void from which Nyx & Erebus emerged; in English it's a disordered mess	chaos.

Damon, Marlon & Kim's big brother, he turned 40 on June 8	Keenan Ivory Wayans.

Referring to their shape, these fragrant buds take their name from the Latin word for "nail"	cloves.

It's the key the French call "Le do du milieu du piano"	middle C.

In the early '70s East German spy Gunter Guillaume infiltrated the office of this West German chancellor	Willy Brandt.

(Happy Halloween, I'm Janet Leigh.)  In a 1953 film my then husband played this man, who died on Halloween in 1926; I played his wife Bess	Harry Houdini.

Her daughter Julie says this future first lady was offered a movie contract in the 1930s when she was a USC student	Mrs.

Nixon.

1983: "Still the Beaver"	Leave it to Beaver.

He became a licensed pilot on his 16th birthday long before his one small step on the Sea on Tranquility	(Neil) Armstrong.

Japanese style / Always syllable counting / This type of poem	haiku.

A sink, or the area drained by a single river system	a basin.

This synonym for "drugstore" comes from the Greek for "druggist's work"	pharmacy.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reads.)  This woman used this camera back when she was an aspiring photographer for a Washington D.C.

newspaper	Jackie Kennedy.

2000: "Mary and Rhoda"	The Mary Tyler Moore Show.

He elected to join the Mercury program in 1959; 15 years later, he'd be elected to join the Senate	(John) Glenn.

Port wines are separated into 2 types based on these 2 possible places where they do most of their aging	barrels & bottles.

The name of this solid figure used to disperse light into a spectrum is from the Greek for "something sawed"	a prism.

As a young wife in the 1950s, she managed the accounts for the family agricultural business	Mrs.

Carter.

2004: "Return to Southfork"	Dallas.

On April 12, 1961, he took his 5 1/4-ton Vostok 1 for a spin at 9:07 A.M.

Moscow time; he had it back by 10:55	(Yuri) Gagarin.

This basic metrical unit of poetry sounds like a body part	a foot.

"Amorous" name of a 2-handled wine vessel or sporting trophy	loving cup.

When food is swallowed, it goes down this tube, the Greek word for "gullet"	the esophagus.

Bloomer was the maiden name of this first lady who blossomed as a fashion model in pre-WWII NYC	Betty Ford.

1987: "Return to Dodge"	Gunsmoke.

With the return of Apollo 13, this commander had completed over 715 hours of space travel	(James) Lovell.

The "heroic" variety of this pair of rhyming lines is written in iambic pentameter	a couplet.

The American Heritage Dict.'s 1st pronunciation for this word rhymes it with "lace"; another with, with "bras"	vase.

From the Greek for "primary", these are made of amino acids	proteins.

She was president (Natl.

Pres.

of the Girl Scouts, that is) in the 1920s while her husband was merely Secy.

of Commerce	(Lou) Hoover.

1997: "Back to the Cul-de-sac"	Knots Landing.

Freedom 7's pilot in 1961, he also commanded Apollo 14, the 1st mission to land on the Moon & not on the lunar seas	(Alan) Shepard.

From the Latin for "stopping place", it's 2 or more lines of poetry that form a division within a poem	a stanza.

It's what's normally carried in a metal pail called a scuttle	coal.

(Jon of the Clue Crew at the Alabama Institute for Deaf & Blind.)  At Alabama Institute for Deaf & Blind, kids gain self-esteem & confidence with this type of therapy, from the Greek for "horse"	hippotherapy.

Poe knows this swinging lever regulates the speed of a clock mechanism	pendulum.

This musical dreamed "The Impossible Dream", playing 2,328 performances before closing in 1971	Man of La Mancha.

Richard Lefevre could eat only 1 1/2 gallons of this "bowl of red" Stagg product in 10 minutes	chili.

This highway that Bob Dylan "Revisited" begins in Thunder Bay, Ontario	Highway 61.

Before becoming a world leader, this Frenchman was wounded 3 times in WWI & was captured at Verdun in 1916	de Gaulle.

On the scenic Lofoten Islands, you can stay in Rorbuer, cottages traditionally used by those in this profession	fishing.

The opposite of diminuendo is this music term, a gradual increase in loudness	crescendo.

This musical about 18 dancers trying out for 8 spots in a Broadway show ended its original 15-year Broadway run in April 1990	A Chorus Line.

Oleg Zhornitskiy turned this sandwich spread into a meal by gulping down 4 32-ounce bowls in 8 minutes	mayonnaise.

Seen here is FDR Drive, which heads into the lower part of this borough	Manhattan.

This ex-NATO commander & presidential candidate was wounded in Vietnam	(Gen.

Wesley) Clark.

The city of Alta, well above the Arctic Circle, has renamed itself the Nordlysbyen Alta, after this display	the northern lights.

This type of gland secretes substances directly into the bloodstream	endocrine.

This Lerner & Loewe musical had its "loverly" farewell in 1962, after 2,717 shows	My Fair Lady.

Cookie Jarvis gave 10 minutes of lip service to 6 2/3 pounds of this pasta, from the Italian for "tongue"	linguini.

Part of U.S.

40 follows the route of this early 19th century road that began in Maryland	the Cumberland Road (or National Road).

In 1775 his leg was severely wounded in an assault on Quebec & he was promoted to brig.

gen.; 5 years later, he'd be in disgrace	Benedict Arnold.

Winter sports lovers benefit from the 2-billion-kroner upgrade of this 1994 Olympic city	Lillehammer.

If I said a clue about a stripper had really nice pair of facts, it'd be an example of this 2-word French term	a double entendre.

With more than 7,400 performances, this musical became a "Memory" after its Sept.

10, 2000 finale	Cats.

In 9 minutes, Sonya Thomas dined on 11 pounds of this cheesy dessert from a Brooklyn restaurant	cheesecake.

The 42 bridges of the Overseas Highway link many of this state's islands to the mainland	Florida.

Norwegian poet Arne Garborg pushed for a literary language based on this "old" one of sagas & eddas	Old Norse.

Shakespeare's Puck: If we have" done this, "think but this, and all is mended"	offended.

It was nice to see this musical "Looking Swell" & "Still Goin' Strong", but after 2,844 shows, it bowed out in 1970	Hello, Dolly!.

Jim Reeves was top-"seeded" after he chomped 13 pounds of this gourd in 15 minutes	watermelon.

Domine Quo Vadis Church stands on this road, where tradition says Peter asked Jesus, "Lord, where are you going?"	the Appian Way.

A summer festival at Vinstra honors this Ibsen & Grieg character based on folklore	Peer Gynt.

He first appeared in Kipling's 1892 story "In the Rukh" as an adult who now & then refers to his very odd childhood	Mowgli.

Ottawa, Canada is famous for these flowers seen here	tulips.

Chile uses this basic unit of currency	a peso.

Christopher Lee, later of "Lord of the Rings", sucked blood in 1968's he "Has Risen from the Grave"	Dracula.

Athina Roussel, granddaughter of this Greek tycoon, inherited billions when she turned 18 in 2003	Onassis.

You can cook the Thanksgiving turkey this way so the outside is crispy & the inside juicy (just beware of splattered oil)	deep fry.

The Italian city of Pisa is located at the mouth of the Arno River, where it flows into this body of water	the Mediterranean Sea.

Seeing the English Gardens at Mottisfont Abbey made Martha Stewart laugh at her own efforts to grow these	roses.

No peeking! This building is portrayed on the back of the $20 bill	the White House.

Sonny Chiba, star of such memorable films as "The Bushido Blade", appeared in "Volume One" of this Tarantino epic	Kill Bill.

This prince was really in the swim when he was voted water polo captain at St.

Andrews University	Prince William.

This region of the U.S.

includes Mississippi & Alabama	the Deep South.

In Italian it's known as "La Torre Pendente"	the Leaning Tower.

Being shaped like this gives the flower seen here its name and also its genus name, campanula	bell.

Italy has issued Euro coins with part of this painter's "Birth of Venus" on the reverse	Botticelli.

"To Kiss in Shadows" & "Stealing Heaven" won 2003 Rita Awards for this type of novel	romance.

Ulysses Grant's granddaughter Julia married a prince from this country & had to flee its revolution in 1917	Russia.

Seen here, he was an endocrinologist before promoting Ayur Veda, an ancient form of holistic medicine	Deepak Chopra.

At the head of his own militia, this medieval author of "The Prince" helped conquer Pisa for Florence in 1509	Machiavelli.

Bergamot is also called the "balm" of these creatures to which it's highly attractive	bees.

Cherry blossoms are featured on the back of the coin worth 100 of these	Yen.

This 2004 Fox show featured the line "I'm going to Waikiki to get a bikini wax...

want to meet me after your shift's over?"	North Shore.

Oralando Montagu is making a lot of "bread" selling this lunch item (he's descended from the Earl who invented it)	a sandwich.

Oprah's first selection for her book club, in 1996, was this book by Jacquelyn Mitchard about a kidnapping	The Deep End of the Ocean.

Born in Pisa in the 16th century, he studied the laws of falling bodies & the motions of projectiles	Galileo.

A 1971 New Jersey law made the common meadow type of this, not the African type, the state flower	a violet.

The name of this unit of currency used in Libya is from the Latin for "ten"	Dinar.

A song from "Dirty Dancing" says, "Now I've had" this; "Yes, I swear it's the truth and I owe it all to you"	"The Time Of My Life".

(Hi, I'm Anderson Cooper of CNN.)  My great-great-great grandfather was this shipping & railroad magnate known as "The Commodore"	Cornelius Vanderbilt.

People on bed rest are at risk for a serious blood clot in the legs known as DVT, short for this	deep vein thrombosis.

This island off the Italian coast where Napoleon was first exiled was controlled for many years by Pisa	Elba.

On Feb.

11, 1993 this Florida prosecutor was nominated Attorney General of the U.S.	Janet Reno.

In 1997 Celine Dion's "My Heart Will Go On" appeared on her album "Let's Talk About Love" & on this soundtrack	Titanic.

In estimating the time to recover from this, figure one day for every hour of the time change	jet lag.

Sir Isaac Newton	Cambridge.

The last British sovereign buried at this church was George II in 1760; since then, they've been buried at Windsor	Westminster Abbey.

P2P means this type of file sharing, like Kazaa or Limewire	peer-to-peer (person-to-person accepted).

In 1940, at age 5, Tenzin Gyatso was enthroned as the 14th one of these spiritual leaders	Dalai Lama.

'N Sync's "No Strings Attached" was the No.

1 album of 2000; this Santana album was No.

2	Supernatural.

Though its slangy name suggests it goes behind, wear this in front to guard your valuables against theft	a fanny pack.

JFK (John Fitzgerald Kennedy)	Harvard.

The world's largest mosque is Shah Faisal Mosque near this Pakistani capital; it can hold 100,000 worshippers	Islamabad.

"Treeware" is this; it comes with software programs	an instruction manual.

This term, German for "lightning war," was used to describe the rapid capture of Poland by Germany in 1939	blitzkrieg.

"The Diary of" this songstress included "Diary", a haunting duet with Tony!  Toni!  Tone!	Alicia Keys.

Jamaica's Rock House Hotel advertises four-poster beds with this protective material over them	a mosquito net.

JFK (John Forbes Kerry)	Yale.

The Episcopal Church at 193 Salem Street in Boston has been holding services continually since December 29, 1723	The Old North Church.

Common fiery name for a nasty or insulting email or newsgroup message	a flame.

On Feb.

20, 1962 the destroyer USS Noa found him floating in the Atlantic after a journey of 75,679 miles	John Glenn.

Their 1999 CD "Californication" reunited guitarist John Frusciante with the group	The Red Hot Chili Peppers.

In part to prevent child abductions, the State Dept.

now requires that minors appear in person to get this	a passport.

Radio's Garrison Keillor	The University of Minnesota.

The seat of New York's Roman Catholic Archdiocese, it's a great example of Gothic Revival architecture	St.

Patrick's Cathedral.

"Egosurfing" means searching the net for this	your own name.

In 1974 the military overthrew this African leader who claimed to be descended from Solomon & the Queen of Sheba	Haile Selassie (of Ethiopia).

"All I Have" with LL Cool J was a last-minute addition to this Jennifer Lopez CD	This Is Me...

Then.

On entering the U.K., if you have anything to declare (besides "They talk funny here"), see one of these officers	customs.

Author Ralph Ellison	Tuskegee.

The Church of this in Jerusalem is said to be built over the site where Jesus was entombed after his crucifixion	Holy Sepulchre.

"VoIP" means this type of "Internet protocol" to make phone calls over the web	voice.

W.E.

Henley, the amputee who wrote the brave poem "Invictus", inspired this character in an 1883 book	Long John Silver.

100,000 people of this city turned out for the 1849 funeral of beloved bandleader Johann Strauss Sr.	Vienna.

1970 George C.

Scott as this general	Patton.

We give thanks that toms, the males of these birds, can reach 70 lbs.	turkeys.

Define-A-Lash from Maybelline is a line of this	mascara.

Of all the USA's wars, this one claimed the most American lives	the Civil War.

An explorer lends his name to this call & response swimming pool game	Marco Polo.

"King of the Waltz" Johann Strauss Jr.

wrote in other dance forms too, like the "Tritsch-Tratsch" this	the polka.

1983: Meryl Streep as this nuclear power technician	Silkwood.

This meat comes before "fried steak" in a dish popular in the South	chicken.

Traditionally at graduation, this student with the highest grades makes a speech	valedictorian.

It was known as "the war to end all wars"	World War I.

In other words, this summer camp game could be called "Seize Your Enemy's Banner"	Capture the Flag.

In 1908 Oscar Strauss turned this playwright's "Arms and the Man" into the operetta "The Chocolate Soldier"	(George Bernard) Shaw.

1992: Jack Nicholson as this labor leader	Jimmy Hoffa.

USDA grades of this "other white meat" are 1, 2, 3, 4 & utility; mmm...

utility this	pork.

In 1923, John Deere launched it's Model D, the first of these to bear the Deere name	a tractor.

During this 1967 war, Israeli troops under Moshe Dayan came within a stone's throw of Damascus, Syria	the Six-Days War.

They'll treat you like a "king" in Petal, Mississippi, home to the International Hall of Fame for this board game	checkers.

Richard Strauss used double basses for Jokanaan's beheading in the opera about this princess	Salom.

2001: Will Smith as this poet/pugilist	Muhammad Ali.

Be vewy quiet; the most common small game animal is this, which is mostly white meat & can be grilled, fried or roasted	rabbit.

It means of or pertaining to the sense of smell	olfactory.

"Operation Rolling Thunder" was the 1965 U.S.

bombing campaign designed in part to stop men & supplies coming south on this road	the Ho Chi Minh Trail.

This lawn game was once called Pall Mall, from Italian words meaning "ball" & "mallet"	croquet.

Horn virtuoso Franz Strauss was consulted by Wagner in devising this hero's horn call	Siegfried.

2004: Liam Neeson as this behavioral researcher	Kinsey.

A western N.Y.

city knows cuts of this humped cattle family member are lower in fat & cholesterol than most cuts of beef	buffalo.

For a nice chianti, visit this wine-making region of Italy that's famous for it	Tuscany.

During this war, Major George Armistead wanted "a flag so large the British will have no difficulty seeing it"	the War of 1812.

In terms of the use of fingers, it's the game in which 0 beats 2, 2 beats 5 & 5 beats 0	Rock, Paper, Scissors.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew holds a wriggling echidna at the Taronga Zoo in Sydney, Australia.)  Naturally, Sydney's Taronga Zoo has a distinctly Australian echidna; an echidna named Millie, short for "millennium", was a mascot in the summer Olympic games in this year	2000.

"It's time to play the music, it's time to light the lights"	The Muppet Show.

Hanging, December 30, 2006 in Baghdad	Saddam Hussein.

Thermostat control, egg tray, crisper	refrigerator.

Jon Krakauer: "Into ____ Air"	Thin.

This expression meaning to crease a page in a book for later reference dates back to 1659	dog-ear.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew enjoys the surf at Bondi Beach in Sydney, Australia.)  It's easy to see why local tradition says that "bondi" once meant "water breaking over rocks" in the language of these people	the Aborigines.

"It's like you're always stuck in second gear, well it hasn't been your day, your week, your month, or even your year"	Friends.

Air crash of his MiG fighter plane while on a training mission near Moscow, March 27, 1968	Yuri Gagarin.

Grip, shaft, a head made of stainless steel, titanium, carbon graphite...	golf club.

Malcolm Gladwell: "The ____ Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference"	Tipping.

If you've been beaten 72-0 in football, you've gotten this, from the name of a smelly critter, Mephitis mephitis	skunked.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from the National Maritime Museum in Sydney, Australia.)  One of the world's most accurate maritime reproductions is the Australian-built replica of this James Cook ship that shares a name with a Space Shuttle	Endeavour.

"Believe it or not, I'm walking on air, never thought I could feel so free"	Greatest American Hero.

An overdose of barbiturates, August 5, 1962, at her L.A.

home	Marilyn Monroe.

Reservoir, filter basket, carafe	a coffee maker.

Kate Jacobs: "The ____ Night Knitting Club"	Friday.

To "go whole" this animal means to indulge completely	hog.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from Sydney, Australia.)  At 3/4 of a mile, the Harbour Bridge is so long that it requires a permanent continuous painting crew; this man, who played Crocodile Dundee, was once a part of that crew	(Paul) Hogan.

"I don't know who you think you are but before the night is through, I wanna do bad things with you"	True Blood.

Firing squad, at the Utah State Prison, January 17, 1977	Gary Gilmore.

Eyepiece, declination setting scale, azimuth fine adjustment	a telescope.

Jane Austen & Ben Winters: "Sense and Sensibility and ____ ____"	Sea Monsters.

This "scaly" alliterative term originally referred to men who flirted in tea rooms	lounge lizards.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from the Sydney Opera House in Sydney, Australia.)  As the Opera House is located on the Harbour, it's fitting that the roof is made up of these sections, named for what they're designed to evoke	sails.

"Movin' movin' movi	Rawhide.

Possible dropping of a tortoise on his head by an eagle, in 456 B.C.	Aeschylus.

Mars light, tower ladder, water pressure gauge, hydrant intake	a fire truck.

Sara Gruen: "Water for ____"	Elephants.

Teens who frequent shopping centers are called these, the title of a Kevin Smith film	mall rats.

In the Book of Job, this name means "accuser", & that was his role in God's court	Satan.

This peanut guy devised some 118 byproducts for the sweet potato	George Washington Carver.

She was one of the last stars in the studio system  "The tobacco farmer's daughter from North Carolina was awed and intimidated by the luxury of the MGM system."	Ava Gardner.

It's borders are the Atlantic Ocean to the south & west & Spain to the north & east	Portugal.

This international sports competition's motto is "Faster, higher, stronger"	the Olympics.

Urban VII, Julius II, Irving III	Irving III.

The laying on of hands is a key part of the practice of "faith" this	healing.

Around 1930 William Lear invented one of these for the car, marketed under tha name Motorola	a radio.

She's made countless moviegoers exclaim, "Che bella"  "With 36 films to her credit, the 21-year-old actress soon overtook Gina Lollobrigida as Italy's reigning box office princess."	Sophia Loren.

India to the north, east & west & Burma to the southeast	Bangladesh.

You've got security with "My word is my bond", the motto of this London financial institution	the London Stock Exchange.

In this job, at a wedding, you'll be called upon to ask, "Friend of the bride or groom?"	usher.

He's on the 4th floor in the Inventors Hall of Fame for his "improvement in hoisting apparatus"	(Elisha) Otis.

For the exact years of the Reagan administration, the woman seen  here starred on this show  "When I came to Hollywood and they gave me the glamor treatment, I learned how to do it quite well."	Dynasty.

Colombia to the north, Peru to the west, Paraguay to the south & the Atlantic Ocean to the east	Brazil.

"All power to the people" was the motto of this African-American political organization of the 1960s	the Black Panthers.

Romanus I, Julius I, Caesar III	Caesar III.

One who interlaces cloth, or an African bird that interlaces grass to make its elaborate nest	a weaver.

In 1948, Rene Bussoz sold the USA's first Aqua Lung, invented by this Frenchman	Cousteau.

She's the enduring actress seen here  "The 30-year-old had gone from a sheltered life with her family straight into a marriage and a fast-paced career."	Susan Sarandon.

Syria to the north & east, Israel to the south & the Mediterranean Sea to the west	Lebanon.

"Honi soit qui mal y pense" (Evil to him who evil thinks) is the motto of this British Chivalric order	Order of the Garter (or Knights of the Garter).

Stephen IX, John XXIV, Clement VIII	John XXIV.

It can mean transparently thin, or perfectly vertical, like a cliff	sheer.

30 years after inventing an instant camera, he invented Polavision, instant movies	Edwin Land.

Director seen  here discussing his movie "10"  "The most I liked about it was that everybody predicted it would be a major flop."	Blake Edwards.

Thailand to the west, Laos to the north & Vietnam to the east	Cambodia.

Strangely, "Blood & fire" is the motto of this Christian charitable organization	the Salvation Army.

Dominicus I, Honorius I, Innocent I	Dominicus I.

It's a printed-out schedule or outline of one's travel plans	an itinerary.

"Tai-Pan" was a "Novel of Hong Kong" by James Clavell, & this was his 1975 "Novel of Japan"	Shogun.

2003 & 2004: The bride who's trying to kill Bill	Uma Thurman.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Cairo, Egypt.) Ironically, this organ was considered of minor importance, crudely removed through the nose & often not preserved	the brain.

In 1954 this Wisconsin senator ws condemned for insulting other senators & obstructing investigations	(Joe) McCarthy.

This "Post" is one of Israel's largest English-language daily newspapers	(the) Jerusalem (Post).

It was founded by Baden-Powell in 1907	the Boy Scouts.

In Pierre Boulle's "Planet of the Apes", Zira & Cornelius are this species of ape	chimpanzees.

2004: Monster hunter Dr.

Gabriel Van Helsing	(Hugh) Jackman.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from Cairo, Egypt.)  Among the many amulets placed within the linen wrappings of a mummy was this symbol of life	an ankh.

This former house speaker was reprimanded in 1997 for misuse of tax-exempt funds & submitting false informaiton	Newt Gingrich.

Political theorist Nikolai Bukharin edited this "truthful" Soviet newspaper from 1917 to 1929	Pravda.

In this 2002 film, single guy Hugh Grant's life is changed by a 12-year old	About a Boy.

Milan Kundera's "Immortality" read in this, its original language, may be unbearably light reading	Czech.

2004: Cady Heron, who loves & hates the "Mean Girls" at her high school	Lohan.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Cairo, Egypt.)  These stone coffins, like the ones built for Tutankhamen, were the final resting places of mummies	sarcophogi.

In 1811 Senator Thomas Pickering was censured for reading aloud from secret documents about this purchase	(the) Louisiana (Purchase).

(Hi, I'm Al Sparks.)  In 1987 I was named "Funniest Teenager in Chicago" by this newspaper for which Roger Ebert works	the Chicago Sun-Times.

Viiolinist-turned-boxer Joe Bonaparte dies in a car crash at the end of this tragic Odets play	Golden Boy.

Goethe called him Faust; Marlowe dubbed him this	Dr.

Faustus.

2004: Sirius Black, the prisioner of Azkaban	Gary Oldman.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Cairo, Egypt.)  Named for a lesser-known Greek hero, these containers were used to store the removed viscera of the mummified	canopic jars.

In 1921 Congress censured Rep.

Thomas Blanton for inserting "obscene matter" into this publication	the Congressional Record.

At the time JFK was shot, Jack Ruby was placing some ads in this "morning" publication	the Dallas Morning News.

This law states that at a constant temp., the volume of a gas in inversely proportional to the pressure	Boyle's (law).

Completes the title of Eldridge Cleaver's 1968 memoir "Soul on..."	Ice.

1999 & 2002: Mini-Me	Verne Troyer.

Senator Benjamin Tappan was censured in 1844 for leaking information about the annexation of this to the Union	Texas.

Florida's highest circulation newspaper is this Gulf Coast city's Times, with about 350,000 daily copies sold	St.

Petersburg.

The Marine Corps' "Black Sheep" squadron was commanded this famed major	Pappy Boyington.

In Act II of this musical, an election victory is announced "on the balcony of the Casa Rosada"	Evita.

From Bei Hai Park in this city, pass the Great Hall of the People, bear left, & then it's straight on to Mao's mausoleum	Beijing.

His "called shot" home run off Charlie Root in the 1932 World Series is baseball legend	Babe Ruth.

3 types of these are rescue trucks, pumpers & ladder trucks	fire trucks.

His autobiography was called "I Don't Mean To Be Rude, But..."	Simon Cowell.

Title of a Jonathan Larson musical, or what the East Village residents in it have trouble coming up with	Rent.

Pop art poster boy who was famous much longer than 15 minutes	Andy Warhol.

This Sudanese capital lies on a narrow piece of land bounded by the White & Blue Nile Rivers	Khartoum.

Maybe...Yes, sir! Nailing an 11-foot putt on 17 helped seal the 1986 Masters for this Golden Bear	Jack Nicklaus.

The Triton was the first one of these to travel around the world underwater	a (nuclear) submarine.

He was "Feelin' Groovy" as an Illinois senator from 1985 to 1997	Paul Simon.

On Skid Row, love blooms for Seymour while Audrey II has a feeding frenzy in this play	Little Shop of Horrors.

Homeothermic, like mammals	warm-blooded.

The Tsarina's Stone is the oldest monument in this city that was made Finland's capital by Russian insistence	Helsinki.

His prestidigitation (or in this case a "Jr.

Skyhook") won Game 4 of the 1987 NBA Finals for the Lakers	Magic Johnson.

These ships were nicknamed "blubber ships"	whaling ships.

In an 1852 novel, he's the plantation owner & slave master	Simon Legree.

Their first commission was "Thespis" for London's Gaiety Theatre in 1871	Gilbert & Sullivan.

In Super Bowl XXXIV, this Rams QB passed for a record 414 yards, beating Joe Montana's record by 57 yards	Kurt Warner.

This Caribbean island's capital, Fort-de-France, lies about 15 miles southeast of Mt.

Pelee volcano	Martinique.

In 1994 this 45-year-old won the title with a 1-2 punch that sent Michael Moorer to Horizontal Land	George Foreman.

This nickname for early cars pointed out that they were not pulled by equines	horseless carriages.

This playwright won a Pulitzer in 1991 with "Lost in Yonkers"	Neil Simon.

This playwright hit the right note with "Amadeus" & then horsed around with "Equus"	Peter Shaffer.

The 14th Chief Justice of the United States	Earl Warren.

Construction began on this German city's Gothic cathedral near the Rhine in 1248 & lasted 632 years	Cologne.

In 1999 she wasn't shirtless in Seattle but rather in Pasadena after her kick won the Women's World Cup for the U.S.	Brandi Chastain.

He named the first Bell X-1 rocket plane for his wife, Glennis	Chuck Yeager.

He was the head of Vienna's Jewish Documentation Center from 1961 to 2003	Simon Wiesenthal.

All the original B'way cast, except Diane Keaton, bared all in a group nude scene in this musical about hippies	Hair.

In response to NATO, Eastern European nations including Poland & the USSR signed this 1955 treaty	the Warsaw Pact.

This alliterative event happened 14 billion years ago	the Big Bang.

Peter Fonda was in "Ulee's Gold"; "Fool's Gold" stars this daughter of Goldie Hawn	Kate Hudson.

In this play, Casca says Cicero's speech "was Greek to me"	Julius Caesar.

The London district of Whitechapel is associated with this infamous killer	Jack the Ripper.

It makes sense that these proud & powerful mammals live in groups called prides	lions.

Lay-deez annnd gentlemen! To "walk" this slender item means to tread carefully	tightrope.

A hydrate contains this compound weakly bound in its crystals	water.

"First Blood" was a Rambo movie; this 2007 film had Daniel Day-Lewis searching for oil	There Will Be Blood.

"She speaks yet she says nothing", pines one character for his unattainable love in this tragedy	Romeo & Juliet.

The mass of a typical one of these stars is about 70% that of the sun	white dwarf.

Common in Dixie, a razorback is a wild one of these	hog.

Left pinky makes "A" & right index makes "J" in this activity	typing.

Of the 3 main classes of rock, this one is further divided into plutonic & volcanic types	igneous.

Ian McKellen was Gandalf in "LOTR"; Ian McEwan wrote the novel on which this 2007 Keira Knightley film was based	Atonement.

It was actually Christopher Sly, not Kate, who says, "I'll not budge an inch" in this comedy	The Taming of the Shrew.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Steinway & Sons factory in New York.)  Steinway stopped using this material in keys decades ago, & in 1993 the company patented a piano key material made of a substitute for it	ivory.

The name of this order of mammals comes from the Latin verb "rodere", meaning to gnaw	rodent.

A synonym for "journey", it's also an upper-crust nickname for a guy with Roman numeral III in his name	trip.

The IRAS telescope, which revealed 5 new comets, made its observations in this part of the light spectrum	infra-red.

"North Country" starred Charlize Theron; "No Country for Old Men" featured this Spaniard as a relentless killer	Javier Bardem.

A wife tries to console her husband in this tragedy by telling him, "What's done is done"	Macbeth.

This black & white dairy cow originated in an area of Holland	Holstein.

The giant species of this "armor-plated" animal has more teeth than any other land mammal	armadillo.

Poi, a luau treat, is made from these mashed roots	taro.

This branch of medicine is devoted to the care & diseases of the elderly	geriatrics.

Everyone knows the "Chronicles of Narnia"; this 2008 film "Chronicles" the Grace family stumbling onto a world of fairies	The Spiderwick Chronicles.

In this comedy, Thurio says to Valentine, "If you spend word for word with me, I shall make your wit bankrupt"	The Two Gentlemen of Verona.

Anne Catherick is all dressed up as the title character of this Wilkie Collins novel	The Woman in White.

The African & Sumatran species of this animal have 2 horns; the Indian & Javan species have one	rhinoceros.

The scarlet variety of this high flier seen here	tanager.

In 1896 he said his mother had lost her childhood at 8; he "knew a time would come when I also must give up the games"	J.M.

Barrie.

Pull into this port city & you'll find Fort Sumter guarding its harbor	Charleston.

Tom Cruise jumped up & down on this left-hander's couch	Oprah Winfrey.

It's the oven or furnace in which pottery is fired	a kiln.

John Kenneth Galbraith said these "are indispensable when you don't want to do anything"--there's one in the boardroom at 2:30	meetings.

Smallest form of a large piano	a baby grand.

In 1964 Martin Luther King became the first African American named this magazine's "Man of the Year"	Time.

Among the busiest ports with "port" in their names are Port Everglades in Florida & Port Arthur in this state	Texas.

This left-handed honey socked it to 'em on "Laugh-In" in the 1960s & as Private Benjamin in the 1980s	Goldie Hawn.

A mosaic needs this mortar between the pieces, just like in a tiled bathroom	grout.

Antoine de Rivarol said, "What is not clear is not" this language	French.

Seen here with roses, it's popular as a bouquet filler	baby's breath.

Frederick Douglass said this political party was the ship & everything else was the ocean	the Republican Party.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew gives the clue from a port city in Georgia.)  This mother city of Georgia was known as the "pretty woman with a dirty face" until a preservation effort began in the 1950s	Savannah.

We gotta hand it to this left-handed actress for winning an Oscar for "Erin Brockovich"	Julia Roberts.

In this craft, you may use corn husks for the core & raffia for the binder	basket weaving.

In a saying attributed to the Duke of Wellington, this battle "was won on the playing fields of Eton"	Waterloo.

Nickname of Haiti's Jean-Claude Duvalier	"Baby Doc".

This military man won the NAACP's Spingarn Medal for 1991	Colin Powell.

By containers handled, Los Angeles is the busiest U.S.

port; the second-busiest is in this city just a few miles south	Long Beach.

The Brad jumped the Jen for this left-handed hottie	Angelina Jolie.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reads the clue while holding onto a draftsman's tool)  The name of this object used by draftsmen to create a pattern also means a preset document into which you plug new information	a template.

Jean-Luc Godard said, "Photography is truth, and" this "is truth 24 times a second"	film (or cinema).

This sticky figure of folklore gave its name to a Toni Morrison novel	the tar baby.

This southern city's convention center is named for Ernest Morial, the city's first African-American mayor	New Orleans.

Among the top 40 busiest ports in the U.S.

are these Northeast & Northwest cities with the same name	Portland.

This left-handed lady was positively "Bewitching" in a 2005 Nora Ephron film	Nicole Kidman.

The name of this knotty craft comes from a word that means "embroidered veil"	macram.

"Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori", wrote Horace, "It is a sweet and seemly thing to die for" this	one's country.

This tree-hopper of the Galagidae family spends a lot of time munching on insects and fruit	a bush baby.

Mari Evans adapted this Zora Neale Hurston work as a musical titled "Eyes"	Their Eyes Were Watching God.

Seen here, she had an age of literature named after her	Elizabeth I.

"Custom K.I.T.T."	Knight Rider.

A kite winder is the central of 3 winders that help make a 90-degree turn in a flight of these	stairs.

This state insect of Vermont is just as sweet as its state tree the sugar maple	the honey bee.

In Reynolds v.

Sims I said that representation in legislatures must be based mostly on population: one man, one this	vote.

As I reflect on the word "genuflect", I remember it means to bend this	one's knee.

In 1707 her title changed to Queen of Great Britain & Ireland (it used to be Queen of England, Scotland & Ireland)	Queen Anne.

"Angels in Chains"	Charlie's Angels.

This 6-letter part of a house is also called an eaves trough	gutter.

Who was that masked animal?  Oklahoma's official state furbearer, that's who	a raccoon.

I am interred at this national cemetery	Arlington.

Alfred E.

Neuman could tell you that a fernticle is another name for one of these on the surface of the skin	a freckle.

Seen here, the second king of this name  spent many years in French exile	Charles.

"Warrior...

Princess...

Tramp"	Xena Warrior Princess.

The Coonley Estate & the Robie House are examples of this midwestern style created by Frank Lloyd Wright	the Prairie Style.

Hot-cha-cha! New Mexico's official state question is "red or" this?	green.

I was a 3-term governor of this state, 1943-1953	California.

To lapidate someone is to execute him by this method	stoning.

He succeeded his mother & was succeeded in 1910 by his son George V	Edward VII.

"The Path to the Black Lodge"	Twin Peaks.

In the English bond style, these are laid in alternate courses of headers & stretchers	bricks.

Florida's state shell is the "horse" type of this (Wow!  I can hear the ocean!)	a conch.

On June 23, 1969 I swore in this man as Chief Justice of the U.S.	Warren Burger.

Used to mean a vulnerable weak point in an enemy's defenses, it means the lower abdomen	underbelly.

This king's marriage to the woman seen here united the houses of York & Lancaster	Henry VII.

"I, Borg"	Star Trek: The Next Generation.

From 1617 to 1642 everyone was keeping up with this Jones, surveyor of works to the British Crown	Inigo.

Extinct?  You bet.

But this "3-lobed" arthropod has crawled into history as Wisconsin's state fossil	trilobite.

I ruled that public school segregation was unconstitutional in this landmark 1954 case	Brown v.

Board of Education.

Enjoy this $2000 quanswer--see, I'm one of these, a creator of new words	neologist.

An epigraph he used on one story says, "our hearts though stout and brave, still, like muffled drums are beating"	Edgar Allan Poe.

In a 2002 movie this hero got an upside-down kiss from Mary Jane	Spider-Man.

Based on a real child, a kid named Christopher Robin hangs out with this literary bear	Winnie the Pooh.

In February 1999 Maine residents built a 10-story one of these named Angus; he melted 15 weeks later	snowman.

It's the rhyming name of a brand of pretzels made by Frito-Lay	Rold Gold.

Pierce Brosnan played this superspy for the first time in "GoldenEye"	James Bond.

The mission of the Apollo space program of the 1960s & '70s was to land men on this celestial body	the moon.

For a while the Hulk was gray, but now he's this color	green.

This collie was the faithful friend of a kid named Joe in a book by British novelist Eric Knight	Lassie.

9,360 graham crackers, 9,312 marshmallows & 4,128 chocolate bars went into one of these made at a campground	s'more.

Reynolds Guyer, inventor of Twister, also created the 4-inch foam ball later sold under this brand name	Nerf ball.

Jacques Chirac of the Rally for the Republic Party won a 7-year term as this country's president	France.

This planet's famous rings were first seen by the Italian scientist Galileo in 1610	Saturn.

In a 1940 comic book Batman & this sidekick take an undying oath to fight crime & corruption	Robin.

Mowgli is the human kid hanging out in the woods with wolves & tigers in this Rudyard Kipling "Book"	"The Jungle Book".

He holds the record for all-time career earnings on the U.S.

PGA circuit (over $26 million from 1996 to 2001)	Tiger Woods.

"Share Moments, Share Life" is a slogan of this brand of film & cameras	Kodak.

In 1997 the Marlins won the Major League, Mexico the Little League & LSU the college version of this event	the World Series.

Kohoutek, Shoemaker-Levy & Halley's are all names for these astronomic objects	comets.

The dude seen here is the "Silver" one of this type of athletes	surfers.

She's Beezus Quimby's pesky young sister	Ramona.

The largest mammal is the blue type of this; it also has the largest offspring, with 4,400-6,600 pound newborns	whale.

This athletic brand is named for the Greek goddess of victory	Nike.

On 2 votes, the House of Representatives did this to President Clinton on Dec.

19, 1998	impeached him.

Many beautiful images like the one seen here have been given to us by this famous space telescope	Hubble Space Telescope.

When Doug Funnie's in a tough spot, he wears his underwear on the outside & becomes this man	Quailman.

"The Sword in the Stone" is a book about a kid who grows up to be this king	King Arthur.

Siberia in this country has had the greatest range in temperatures -- from 98 degrees F.

to -90 degrees F.	Russia.

The bird's nest logo of this chocolate brand comes from its founder's coat of arms	Nestle.

The Persian Gulf War of 1991 was fought mainly in Iraq & this oil-rich nation next door	Kuwait.

Many astronomers believe the Great Andromeda spiral galaxy has one of these "dark" collapsed stars at its center	black hole.

No beans about it, this capital is the largest city in New England	Boston.

Around July your building's superintendent will be your hero when he fixes the A/C, short for this	air conditioning.

Taylor Negron plays nanny to these twins on "So Little Time"	the Olsen twins.

One of the noble gases, it's the lightest of all gases after hydrogen	helium.

It was an 11-year-old girl who first suggested that Lincoln do this to improve his appearance	grow a beard.

Outsmart or outwit someone & you also out- this "sly" animal them	fox.

This twin city is the capital of Minnesota	St.

Paul.

Be careful not to drop your key down this vertical passage in which the elevator moves up & down	shaft.

Coming to TV in 2002, this star of an Oscar-nominated movie was once known as Johnny Quasar	Jimmy Neutron.

This element is essential for the clotting of blood, as well as healthy teeth & bones	calcium.

This speech that Lincoln delivered on a battlefield in 1863 lasted only 2 minutes but its impact was huge	the Gettysburg Address.

In kiddy lit Jack didn't kill the titan or the colossus, he killed this	the giant.

It's nicknamed the "Center of the Pineapple Industry"	Honolulu.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew)  You can save lives & earn firemen's gratitude if you keep this in good working order	smoke detector.

Putting the Goth in "American Gothic", this rocker & his family starred in a hit MTV reality show in 2002	Ozzy Osbourne.

Diamonds & graphite are both forms of this element	carbon.

Illinois is the "Land of Lincoln", but the birthplace of Lincoln is this state just to the south	Kentucky.

I cannot tell a prevarication: it has this 3-letter synonym	lie.

A 150-foot-high battle monument in this New Jersey capital marks the site of a famous Revolutionary War battle	Trenton.

These common, crawly apartment insects have German, brown-banded & American species	cockroaches.

Inspired by Sydney, her character on "Alias", this actress enjoys kickboxing	Jennifer Garner.

Bananas are an excellent source of this element whose symbol is K	potassium.

In April 1865 while attending a play at this man's theater, Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth	Ford's Theatre.

Every Memorial Day weekend, this city hosts its famous 500 auto race	Indianapolis.

When painting a room, put this on as the first coat; it's spelled like a book that teaches reading	primer.

In 2001 this actress, Borg babe Seven of Nine on "Voyager", joined the cast of "Boston Public"	Jeri Ryan.

This element, Na, combines with chlorine to form ordinary table salt	sodium.

In the painting seen here, Lincoln is reading this historic document that led to the end of slavery	the Emancipation Proclamation.

In 1974, to save energy, it began in January instead of April & ended on October 27	Daylight saving time.

Tokelau, a territory of this country, is over 1,000 miles north of its Noeth Island	New Zealand.

Jafar	Aladdin.

His forces defeated the Persian Army under Darius III in 333 B.C.	Alexander the Great.

You "pull a few" of these to get a favor done	Strings.

This Oscar winner played the matriarch of the Partridge Family	Shirley Jones.

Steven Wright joked, "I put instant coffee in" this type of "oven and nearly went back in time"	Microwave.

In 1896 George Carmack, Skookum Jim & Tagish Charlie found gold in this territory	Yukon Territory.

Ursula	The Little Mermaid.

In the 18th century she founded a medical college & the first Russian school for girls	Catherine the Great.

From the idea of breaking camp comes this phrase for moving on	Pull up stakes.

She played Shirley Feeney on "Laverne & Shirley"	Cindy Williams.

It's the classic response to the request "Call me a cab!"	"OK, you're a cab!".

In 1858 the British established this type of colony on India's Andaman Islands	Penal colony.

Scar	The Lion King.

This 9th century king of Wessex repeatedly repelled the Danes with great success	Alfred the Great.

Since the 8th century, it's what churchmen have pulled to ring their bells	Ropes.

Shirley Manson is the lead singer of this "trashy" alternative band	Garbage.

When this gastropod in a shell rode on the turtle's back, it said, "Whee!"	Snail.

The price paid for these Caribbean islands in 1917 was $25 million, over 3 times what Alaska cost	Virgin Islands.

Clayton	Tarzan.

From 1682 to 1689 he shared the throne with his half-brother Ivan V	Peter the Great.

Word on the 2 buttons that preceded this one: (Curly in a "Three Stooges" clip showing a button marked "Pull")	Press.

The 1999 movie "The Haunting" was based on her novel "The Haunting of Hill House"	Shirley Jackson.

When singing "The Star-Spangled Banner", Pavarotti & Domingo could change the first line to this for Mr.

Carreras	Jose, can you see by the dawn's early light.

Australia has an uninhabited territory named for this sea off its northeast coast	Coral Sea.

Kaa & Shere Khan	The Jungle Book.

During the Seven Years' War, this king gained great military prestige & land for Prussia	Frederick the Great.

Ermal Fraze holds the 1963 patent for part of the "tear strip opener" better known to pop drinkers as this	Pull tab.

"Moonraker" is one of the 3 James Bond movies that have featured her singing over the title sequence	Shirley Bassey.

Completes Groucho's "One morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas..."	"How he got in my pajamas, I'll never know!".

Pride!  Envy!  Gluttony!  Lust!  All that & more are dramatized in a 1933 opera named for this septet of vices	"The Seven Deadly Sins".

Julie Harris reads the diary this girl wrote while in hiding in WWII Amsterdam	Anne Frank.

He was "X"-static when the first "X-Files" episode he directed aired 1 day after the birth of his baby.	David Duchovny.

While studying at Cambridge in the late 1960s, this prince showed a flair for acting in comedy revues	Prince Charles.

Beloved father of Cordelia, less beloved father of Goneril & Regan	King Lear.

Title of Oliver Goldsmith's title man "of Wakefield"	The Vicar.

Of a woman, an evil twin or a circus ape, what Sir Edgar's nephew turns out to be in "Der Junge Lord"	A circus ape.

This sitcom's last show of the '98-'99 season ended with the cast singing & dancing to "Brotherhood of Man"	The Drew Carey Show.

This Tudor king founded Cambridge's Trinity College in 1546	Henry VIII.

"Run", "Redux", "Rich", finally "At Rest"	Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom.

He traveled the Yellow Brick Road	Scarecrow.

In "Susannah", a Bible-inspired opera, the elders are scandalized when they see the nude Susannah doing this outside	Bathing in a creek.

"Matlock" & "Designing Women" were both set in this state capital	Atlanta.

The 2 parts of St.

John's college are connected by a copy of this Venetian bridge	Bridge of Sighs.

Devoted salesman & husband to Linda.

"Attention must be paid."	Willy Loman.

Lord Lechery, Madam Wanton & Madam Bubble are all characters in the 1951 opera based on this John Bunyan work	"Pilgrim's Progress".

"Cosmetic" name of the magazine that's the focus of "Just Shoot Me", or what its racier episodes may make you do	Blush.

This author of "Vanity Fair" studied at Cambridge but left without a degree	William Makepeace Thackeray.

Fondly remembered by the boys of The Brookfield School.

Goodbye...	Mr.

Chips.

In this casino game the winner is the one whose hand totals closest to 9	Baccarat.

A singing sofa & a chorus of frogs are featured in "L'Enfant et les Sortileges" by this "Bolero" composer	Maurice Ravel.

Like Burton & Taylor, Billy Zane & Leonor Varela had a romance when they played these lovers (in a 1999 miniseries)	Antony & Cleopatra.

This great Flemish artist's "Adoration of the Magi" adorns King's College chapel	Peter Paul Rubens.

Died on safari after a short happy life.

Placed here by his wife	Francis Macomber.

It's a swine-like hoofed animal of the Western Hemisphere	Peccary.

In 1998 a 61-year-old piece of this couple's wedding cake sold for $26,000 at Sotheby's	The Duke of Windsor (former King Edward VIII) & Wallis Simpson.

"The Father of Pennsylvania"	William Penn.

Evita sang, "Don't" do this "for me Argentina -- the truth is I never left you"	Cry.

In 1830 England's Manchester & Liverpool Railway became the 1st to have all trains powered by this	Steam.

This Spanish mission & a star are depicted on San Antonio's flag	The Alamo.

Marty McFly traveled back to 1955 in a souped-up DeLorean in this 1985 film	"Back To The Future".

Ping-Pong	Table Tennis.

"The King of Ragtime"	Scott Joplin.

When he's "Hoppin' down the bunny trail, hippity hoppin' Easter's on its way"	Peter Cottontail.

This light Russian sleigh is pulled by 3 horses	Troika.

The 4 stars appearing on this city's flag stand for Fort Dearborn, a fire & 2 World's Fairs	Chicago.

This huge creature 1st waddled through Tokyo & its suburbs in 1956	Godzilla.

A menu for the subject matter of a book usually placed before the text	Table of Contents.

"Schnozzola"	Jimmy Durante.

The woman who "cries the whole night long; he was my man but he done me wrong' "	Frankie.

The 1st of these high-speed German highways was opened between Cologne & Bonn in 1932	Autobahn.

The Y-shaped design on this city's flag represents the convergence of the Mississippi & Missouri rivers	St.

Louis.

Steve Martin is a scientist who falls in love with a brain -- hence this title	"The Man With Two Brains".

Moving around a restaurant to hobnob & exchange gossip with friends & acquaintances	Table Hopping.

"The Handcuff King"	Harry Houdini.

"When I dream about the moonlight on" this river, "then I long for my Indiana home"	The Wabash.

Smaller than a junk, this Oriental boat usually has a cabin with a roof made of mats	Sampan.

A steamboat & a cotton plant appear on this Tennessee's city flag	Memphis.

Means by which Jack the Ripper & H.G.

Wells get to 1970s San Francisco in "Time After Time"	Time Machine.

To reverse the situation & gain the upper hand	Turn the Tables.

"The Belle of Amherst"	Emily Dickinson.

John Denver's 2-word description of West Virginia in the 1st line of "Take Me Home, Country Roads"	Almost Heaven.

Surprisingly, the Cadillac Motor Car Co.

was founded by & originally named for this man	Henry Ford.

Its flag features a pioneer family, a covered wagon & 2 sea gulls	Salt Lake City.

Futuristic S.

Kubrick film starring M.

McDowell as Alex, a psychopathic gang leader	"A Clockwork Orange".

If you can still walk while your buddy is falling down intoxicated, you have done this to him	Drink him under the table.

He was our country's 1st blue-eyed president	George Washington.

After a lengthy hiatus, Garry Trudeau brought this strip back to 810 daily papers	"Doonesbury".

"I'm Not Rappaport" takes place on a battered bench near the lake in this famous park	Central Park.

It's published by Gruner & Jahr, not by mom & dad as its name implies	Parents' Magazine.

A little larger than the violin, it's the alto or tenor of the family	Viola.

The French version of a day bed, the chaise longue, literallly means this	Long Chair.

He won the presidency with help from a song called "Grandfather's Hat Fits Ben"	Benjamin Harrison.

This science fact & fiction writer published his 300th book which he called "Opus 300"	Isaac Asimov.

The play in which Amanda says, "I want you to stay fresh and pretty -- for gentleman callers."	"The Glass Menagerie".

Final Frontier is "The magazine of" this kind of "exploration"	Space.

Phil Collins once said, "Whatever else I am, I'm" one of these "first"	A Drummer.

A collapsible chair intended for outdoor use, especially aboard a ship	Deck Chair.

One of Reagan's last official acts as president was writing a thank-you note to this world leader	Margaret Thatcher.

The Boston Symphony had to pay this actress $100,000 for canceling her contract due to her PLO support	Vanessa Redgrave.

Lee Strasberg played the original peddler in this 1931 play which inspired "Oklahoma!"	"Green Grow The Lilacs".

Comparing itself to People, this magazine says it reaches "A better class of people"	Us.

You insert a roll into this instrument for it to tickle its own ivories	Player Piano.

2 of the 7 men who were under 50 years old when they became president	Cleveland, Garfield, Grant, JFK, Pierce, Polk & Teddy Roosevelt.

98% of voters in Pakistan elected this leader killed 4 years later in a plane crash	Zia Ul-Haq.

This playwright dedicated "A Delicate Balance" to J.

Steinbeck with "affection and admiration"	Edward Albee.

This magazine's "Transition" column features birth, marriage, divorce & death announcements	Newsweek.

From the Greek "psallein", to pluck, we get this plucked type of zither that's mentioned in the Bible	Psalterion.

Also called a slat-back chair, this chair is named for an object you might climb	Ladder-Back Chair.

1 of the 2 presidents who could have used the Pony Express while in office	Buchanan & Lincoln (1860-1861).

In December this founder of est announced that he was giving last of his weekend transformation sessions	Werner Erhardt.

He revised his 1st play, "Farther Off From Heaven", & retitled it "The Dark At The Top Of The Stairs"	William Inge.

This founder of Weight Watchers is a cosulting editor of Weight Watchers magazine	Jean Nidetch.

For his set of pipes, the god Pan cut this into different lengths & strapped them in a row	Reeds.

He not only designed the Gateway Arch, he created furniture such as the sculptured "Womb" chair	Eero Saarinen.

City that was the seat of government of the viceroyalty of New Spain	Mexico City.

Cadpig was the smallest & prettiest of Pongo's 15 puppies in this 1956 Dodie Smith novel	"101 Dalmatians".

The Beatles sang that he "doesn't have a point of view, knows not where he's going to"	"Nowhere Man".

Le Champollion is the gourmet restaurant of this city's Le Meridien Hotel, on an island in the Nile	Cairo.

It's "hound"ed by its resemblance to the blueberry, but it has fewer seeds	Huckleberry.

Just because you have this pervasive suspicion of others, doesn't mean they're not out to get you	Paranoia.

A translation of the Bible: KJV	King James Version.

Cottontail & these 2 "went down the lane to gather blackberries" in "The Tale of Peter Rabbit"	Flopsy & Mopsy.

Her "True Blue" peaked at No.

3 just a few weeks after "Papa Don't Preach" topped the charts	Madonna.

(Hi, I'm Brad Garrett of "Everybody Loves Raymond")  I opened for Frank Sinatra at this Vegas hotel, now closed, where the Rat Pack held a "summit" in 1960	Sands.

The berry of this unassuming shrub produces the oil commonly used to flavor gin	Juniper/sloe.

Maybe Alfred Adler didn't think he was good enough when he identified & named this complex	Inferiority complex.

To a dog lover: ASPCA	American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

This old grey donkey was Winnie-the-Pooh's friend who always saw things in a gloomy light	Eeyore.

Singer of the No.

3 hit heard here: ("I Feel Good")	James Brown.

We'll tell you "diplomatically" that this L.A.

hotel was the home of the Coconut Grove nightclub	The Ambassador Hotel.

The tart, red cowberry is also called the "mountain" type of this berry, it is likewise used for sauce	Cranberry.

This self-absorbed personality disorder is named for a mythical youth who loved his reflection	Narcissism.

A women's society: DAR	Daughters of the American Revolution.

This brown bear in Kipling's "The Jungle Book" taught the wolf cubs the law of the jungle & was later Mowgli's teacher	Baloo.

In 1985 David Lee Roth reached No.

3 with "California Girls", 20 years after this group did the same	The Beach Boys.

The most famous hotel of this Canadian city is seen here: (Chateau Frontenac)	Quebec City.

A judge crossed California & Texas blackberries & created these which bear his name	Loganberries.

Logorrhea, also called verbomania, is doing this excessively or uncontrollably	Speaking/talking.

A paranormal "experience": OBE	Out-of-body experience.

Anna Sewell wrote her only novel about this title animal as a plea for the proper care of horses	"Black Beauty".

No.

3 Simon & Garfunkel hit that ends, "And an island never cries"	"I Am a Rock".

He opened his own hotel in Paris in 1898 & soon started running the Carlton in London	Cesar Ritz.

This small berry shares its name with a dried fruit once shipped from Corinth	Currant.

Washers & hoarders are types of people with OCD, which stands for this	Obsessive compulsive disorder.

To an infantryman: APC	Armored personnel carrier.

About 1 out of every 10 Japanese people lives in this city's metropolitan area	Tokyo.

134-pound Hirofumi Nakajima holds the record of eating 24 1/2 of these in 12 minutes at the Nathan's July 4th contest	Hot dogs.

44 B.C.: Casca & company	Julius Caesar.

A 1915 film named for Charlie's most famous character was called simply this (no "Little")	Tramp.

In 1880 Joseph Juneau & Richard T.

Harris found gold in the Gastineau Channel of this U.S.

territory	Alaska.

Eastern, Central, Mountain, Pacific	Time zones.

In 1973 a highway bridge opened connecting the European & Asian parts of this Turkish city	Istanbul.

This cruise ship favorite played on a 52-foot court is an event at the National Senior Games	Shuffleboard.

1881: Charles Guiteau	James Garfield.

Chaplin went on stage at age 5 in this type of "hall", the British equivalent of Vaudeville	Music Hall.

The Black Hills Gold Rush of 1874 spilled over into territory claimed by this Native American tribe	Sioux.

It's the "Fox"y TV spinoff seen here:	The Time of Your Life.

It served as Australia's capital from 1901 to 1927	Melbourne.

Theta Tau at Purdue holds a contest for convoluted machines in the spirit of this cartoonist	Rube Goldberg.

1984: Beant Singh & Satwant Singh	Indira Gandhi.

Nigel Bruce of Dr.

Watson fame played an impresario in this "glowing" 1952 Chaplin film	Limelight.

Tourists now rush to this man's 1839 Adobe Fort in Sacramento, California	John Sutter.

It's the parent company of CNN	Time Warner.

This Cairo suburb, near the Pyramids, is home to most of Egypt's motion picture industry	Giza.

In 1999 'N Sync performed at the 17th annual pageant to crown Miss this	Miss Teen USA.

1901: Leon Czolgosz	William McKinley.

The last of Chaplin's 4 teenage brides was Oona, this playwright's daughter	Eugene O'Neill.

An 1859 gold strike brought miners to Cherry Creek, the site of this future state capital	Denver.

To own a property jointly with others & use it in common but at different times	Time-share.

Recife is called "The Venice of" this South American country	Brazil.

At the 1999 Westminster Dog Show, CH Loteki Supernatural Being won this award for matching the breed standard	Best in Show.

1170: Reginald Fitzurse & 3 other knights	Thomas Becket.

Charlie made 35 films in about a year at this Mack Sennett studio	Keystone Studios.

Forty-niners from this European country were called Keskydees, a corruption of an oft-used phrase	France.

Bob Dylan's 1964 hit song about the inevitable passing of the years	"The Times They Are a-Changin'".

(Hi, I'm Brian Dennehy)  This man won a Tony for writing the Best Play of 1949 and I had the honor of presenting him with a Lifetime Achievement Tony in 1999	Arthur Miller (wrote \"Death of a Salesman\").

When "do not" and "should not" are contracted, this mark of punctuation is used to show missing letters	apostrophe.

"Ding-Dong! The Witch is Dead!" is a song from this famous movie	The Wizard of Oz.

In January 1999, 100 people in this job were sworn in as jurors at the president's impeachment trial	U.S.

senators.

This "fortunate" cereal is "magically delicious"	Lucky Charms.

In 1934, a giant clam had yielded one of these gems with a diameter of 5 1/2 inches, weighing over 14 pounds	pearl.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew displays her hat.) From the Latin for "hooded cloak", it's this popular French style of hat	beret.

This part of speech doesn't always end in "ly"; once, there & often are other examples	adverb.

"Whenever we go out, the people always shout, there goes" this man	John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt.

This whole grain cereal from General Mills makes the rounds in frosted & honey nut as well as the original	Cheerios.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew reads from the Chicago Field Museum.)  My friend Sue here is the largest, most complete & best preserved one of these dinosaurs ever discovered	a Tyrannosaurus rex.

Proverbially, if you're crazy, you might be as "mad as" one of these makers of men's headwear	hatter.

Capt.

Kirk's mission was "to boldly go" where no man had gone before, but he split one of these along the way	an infinitive.

This Nickelodeon animated series features the song heard here	As Told by Ginger.

Babe Ruth was one of the first athletes to endorse this "Breakfast of Champions"	Wheaties.

The Great Red Spot is a great big storm on this great big planet	Jupiter.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew sports his hat.) The hat I'm wearing is most strongly identified with this American hero, of the Alamo	Davy Crockett.

It's the indirect object of the sentence "Carmen gave Jose a cookie"	Jose.

It's the title of the Christmas carol and the line that precedes "sweetly singing o'er the plains"	"Angels We Have Heard on High".

If you pour it just right, you'll have "26 tasty little letters in every bowl" of this Post cereal	Alpha-bits.

At 3 1/2 million square miles, this largest desert could just about cover the United States	Sahara.

The ever-popular Bowler hat is named for William Bowler, the man who created it in 1850 in this country	England.

It's the third person plural objective case pronoun	them.

Glory, hallelujah! "His truth is marching on" in this patriotic hymn	"Battle Hymn of the Republic".

The native Inuit in this country got a new territory--Nunavut	Canada.

Watch "dinosaur eggs" hatch or hunt for "treasure" while warming your tummy with a bowl of this	(Quaker instant) oatmeal.

Until it met disaster in 1912, it was the largest & most luxurious passenger ship afloat	Titanic.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew shows off her headwear.) Hat's off to the Moroccan city that shares its name with this type of hat	Fez.

In "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", he's the reclusive owner of the factory	Willy Wonka.

The musical "Into the Woods" is based on several fairy tales, including the one about this boy and his beanstalk	Jack.

To study atoms you might use a scanning tunneling one of these	microscope.

This city that served as capital of a united Germany in 1871 became the capital of a reunited Germayny in 1990	Berlin.

Julius Caesar became the leader of this empire in 45 B.C.

but was killed just one year later	Roman.

If you're in Naples & don't know Italian, ask "Parla inglese?" which means this	"Do you speak English?".

He pretty much stopped treating people after his parrot Polynesia taught him how to talk to animals	Dr.

Dolittle.

Inspired by classical myths, "Metamorphosis" tells of Orpheus, Alcyone & this king with the "golden touch"	Midas.

In 1932 James Chadwick discovered these non-charged particles	neutrons.

The northern terminus of China's Grand Canal is located in this major city	Beijing.

Around 1200 B.C.

this Biblical man led his people to Canaan after their escape from slavery	Moses.

"Donde est el bao?" is Spanish for "where is" this, sometimes discreetly called "the facilities"	bathroom.

Robinson Crusoe gave this name to a native he saved from cannibals on a certain day of the week	Friday.

Characters in this musical include a teacup called Chip & a clock named Cogsworth	Beauty and the Beast.

Rather than in fixed orbits, these particles travel in shells or layers around the nucleus	electrons.

This small western European country is known for quality carpets, cut diamonds & fine chocolates	Belgium.

In 1347, this "bubonic" disease began in Europe; as many as one-third of the population would perish	plague.

If you see a cool t-shirt in a store in Poland, "Kosztuje?" is how you ask this	"How much does this cost?".

She's the celebrated "maid of honor" seen here	Amelia Bedelia.

The Phantom of the Opera wears a partial one of these on his face, probably because a full one is hard to sing through	mask.

When a nucleus is split, it's called fission; when 2 nuclei combine, it's called this	fusion.

The Vistula River flows north through Poland into this sea	Baltic.

Over 5,000 years ago, this ancient people created Hieroglyphics, like the one seen here	Egyptians.

In Latin, the "5 W's" are mostly Q's; quid means what, quare means why and quando means this	when.

In a 2001 tale by Alice Hoffman, Aquamarine is a beautiful & brokenhearted one of these creatures	a mermaid.

"Thoroughly Modern Millie" takes place during this "roaring" decade when flappers bobbed their hair	1920s.

No matter what element they are in, they weigh the same & their total is an element's atomic number	protons.

At the finals in 1999, I asked about a bridge linking the European & Asian parts of Turkey across this strait	Bosporus.

Around 336 B.C., this "great" king of Macedonia began building an empire from Africa to India	Alexander.

What the Germans call a Bambusbar, we generally call this	a panda bear.

On February 15 this president-elect survived an assassination attempt by Giuseppe Zangara	Franklin D.

Roosevelt.

To audition for this musical, Yul Brynner sang while sitting cross-legged on the floor	"The King And I".

Autumn brings Choyo-No-Sekku or Chrysanthemum Day in this country	Japan.

Abbreviated TB, this disease is characterized by lesions in the lung tissue	Tuberculosis.

The winner of a game of War winds up with this many cards	52.

"Can the leopard change" these? means "it's impossible"	Its Spots.

Federal judge John Woolsey lifted the ban on the importation & sale of this James Joyce book	"Ulysses".

Their 1955 show, "Pipe Dream", about the people of Cannery Row, was based on this author's "Sweet Thursday"	John Steinbeck.

On this date Denmark's Rebild Park holds the largest foreign celebration of American independence	4-Jul.

The human body contains many of these:  some are hinge, some are saddle, some are pivot types	Joints.

Instead of pips, poker dice have 6 card values on them that run 9 through this	Ace.

To "pass over" this river means to reach the promised land	Jordan River.

The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 established this corporation that guarantees the savings of bank customers	FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation).

In 1994 this show about a carnival barker won 5 Tonys, including Best Musical Revival	"Carousel".

National Freedom Day, February 1, celebrates the 13th Amendment, which abolished this	Slavery.

Blood leaves the heart from ventricles & enters the heart through these chambers	Atria.

It's a form of Authors for kids; playing it you may ask another player, "Do you have any twos?"	Go Fish.

Unworthy or sinful people are known as a "generation of" these poisonous creatures	Vipers.

Known as the "Little Flower", he left the House of Representatives in 1933 & became mayor of NYC	Fiorello LaGuardia.

For 15 years, 1946-1961, this show set in Indian Territory was Broadway's longest-running musical	"Oklahoma!".

Ecuador & Venezuela observe the birth of this "George Washington of South America" each July 24	Simon Bolivar.

This vitamin produced when the skin is exposed to sunlight is toxic in excess	Vitamin D.

The 4 players in bridge are given these directional titles	North, South, East & West.

Robert Heinlein used this phrase from Exodus 2:22 as the title of one of his novels	"Stranger In A Strange Land".

On March 23 this German parliament relinquished its power to Adolf Hitler	Reichstag.

Characters in this musical include Mei Li, Linda Low & Sammy Fong	"Flower Drum Song".

September 10 is St.

George's Cay Day in this Central American country	Belize (formerly British Honduras).

These corpuscles are named for their shape rather than for their color	Platelets.

It's the number of dice you toss on your first roll of Yahtzee	5.

"Pale Horse" is a metaphor for the approach of this	Death.

This "bonnie" prince had a daughter by his mistress Clementina Walkinshaw	"Bonnie" Prince Charlie.

Some say these dried treats are tastier made from seeded grapes than from seedless ones	Raisins.

Elizabeth Barrett mentioned this future husband in her poem "Lady Geraldine's Courtship" before they met	Robert Browning.

Before starring on TV's "Thunder In Paradise", this "Hulkster" played Thunderlips in "Rocky III"	Hulk Hogan.

You can see this North American country's highest volcano, Volcan Citlaltepetl, in Pico de Orizaba National Park	Mexico.

A male feline	Tomcat.

In 1949 he succeeded his grandfather  Prince Louis II as ruler of Monaco	Prince Rainier.

Chop Suey, cioppini & vichyssoise were all invented in this country	U.S.A..

Prince Albert sent his copy of "Idylls Of The King" to this poet & asked him to autograph it	Alfred Lord Tennyson.

He played Elvis' trainer in "Kid Galahad" a "Dirty Dozen" years before he starred in "Death Wish"	Charles Bronson.

This snowcapped mountain provides the backdrop for Kenya's Amboseli National Park	Mt.

Kilimanjaro.

The name of this device used to stop bleeding may come from a French word for "turn"	Tourniquet.

In 1599, Albert, Archduke of Austria, married the Infanta of this country	Spain.

Juniper is used to smoke Germany's Westphalian form of this meat	Ham.

Written in 1811, this lord's poem "Farewell To Malta" begins, "Adieu, ye joys of La Valette!"	Lord Byron.

This platinum blonde was a real knockout as a prizefighter's scheming wife in the 1931 film "Iron Man"	Jean Harlow.

One of this country's major recreational areas is Vitosha National Park near Sofia	Bulgaria.

One who plays hooky from school might find himself pursued by this type of officer	Truant officer.

This dreaded czar who died in 1584 was probably the most famous member of the Rurik dynasty	Ivan The Terrible.

Riz A L'Imperatrice is an elegant version of this homey dessert	Rice Pudding.

In "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud", Wordsworth wrote about "A crowd, a host of golden" ones	daffodils.

Jack Palance starred in the TV version of this "heavy" Rod Serling drama; Anthony Quinn, in the film version	"Requiem For A Heavyweight".

In Alberta the scenic Icefields Parkway connects Jasper National Park with this other one	Banff.

It's the period between sunset & dark when the sun is just below the horizon	Twilight.

After this emperor died in 14 A.D., his relatives, the Julio-Claudian dynasty, ruled until 68	Augustus.

The Bismarck type of this fish is made of fillets cured in vinegar, salt & onions	Herring.

He called "Prometheus Unbound" "The best thing I ever wrote"	Percy B.

Shelley.

Based on Clifford Odets' play, this "colorful" 1939 film made William Holden a star	Golden Boy.

Argentina & Brazil have national parks to preserve the wildlife & beauty of these extensive waterfalls	Iguazu Falls.

The Roman god Jupiter used this weather phenomenon as a weapon, by jove	Thunderbolt.

In 1967 this former teacher published a memoir entitled "Center of the Storm"	John Scopes (famous Scopes Trial).

Educated at Phillips Academy, Yale & Harvard, this part-time Crawford resident was born in Connecticut in 1946	George W.

Bush.

Title adjective describing Dion's "Sue"	Runaround.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton's cousin Elizabeth Smith Miller first wore these trousers named for another woman	bloomers.

Exiled from Iran in 1964	Khomeini.

To WWI British aviators, the Red Baron's group with its colorful planes was one of these, like Monty Python's	a Flying Circus.

Your DL is a form of this; it shows who you are & how old you are	ID.

Since 1935 this agency that originated in the 1820s has operated as a branch of the Texas Dept.

of Public Safety	the Texas Rangers.

The subject of this 1973 Allman Brothers hit was "tryin' to make a livin' and doin' the best I can"	"Ramblin' Man".

Of 76, 86 or 96 cents, what U.S.

women working full-time earn for every dollar their male counterparts make	76 cents.

Died in 1989	Khomeini.

These BF Goodrich sneakers were said to make you "run faster and jump higher"	PF Flyers.

Randy Newman sang, "Looks like another perfect day, I love" this place	L.A..

This state bird of Texas belongs to the family Mimidae	the mockingbird.

UB40 sang that this makes me "feel so fine, you keep me rocking all of the time"	Red Red Wine.

Emmeline & Christabel Pankhurst were a mother-daughter team of these activists for the vote	suffragettes.

Elected president in 1997	Khatami.

During World War II, a famous American volunteeer air corps in Asia was nicknamed this	the Flying Tigers.

Its logo is seen here	the UN.

From 1846 to 1859 this ex-Tennessee governor was a U.S.

senator from Texas	Sam Houston.

This alternative rock band's "Stand" served as the theme song to the sitcom "Get a Life"	R.E.M..

The work of Laura X (no relation to Malcolm) led to March being designated this every year	Women's History Month.

Supreme religious & political leader since 1990	Khamenei.

This rotating device attached to a shaft keeps an engine's speed steady	a flywheel.

Sadly, what Keats & Chopin died of	TB.

Born in 1921, this Mission, Tex.-born senator served with Jack Kennedy, knew Jack Kennedy & hey! you're not Jack Kennedy!	Lloyd Bentsen.

4 of this Swedish pop duo's first Top 40 hits reached No.

1, including "It Must Have Been Love"	Roxette.

The profession of Mary Prance in Henry James' 1886 "The Bostonians", it was about 1/5 female in Boston at the time	a physician (or medicine or a doctor).

Published "Fear of the Wave" in 1993	Khatami.

Airborne nickname of 1920s Olympic gold medalist Paavo Nurmi	the Flying Finn.

It's the famous apparel company founded by surfboard maker Jim Jenks in 1972	OP.

(Alex reports from the Barnes Foundation.) While confined to a French sanitarium in Saint-Remy, this artist painted the Dutch landscape of Brabant in "Reminiscence of the North"	Van Gogh.

In Kazakhstan: Kazakh & this	Russian.

The title characters of this Chekhov play also have a brother named Andrey	The Three Sisters.

To buy this precious metal, visit Taxco, Mexico; it's the city's best-known product	silver.

Named for its early 19th century creator, bunraku is the traditional puppet theater of this country	Japan.

Your occupation if you're a carillonneur	a bell ringer.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from the Barnes Foundation.) In "Three Ballet Dancers", he used pastels to transform awkward natural movements into balletic gestures	Degas.

In San Marino: this	Italian.

Chekhov's grandfather was one of these who had purchased the freedom of his family for 3,500 rubles	a serf.

In 1984 the album "Ride the Lightning" by Metallica achieved this status of 500,000 copies sold	gold.

This 2004 Matt Stone & Trey Parker film featured risque marionettes	Team America(: World Police).

It's an Italian city about 40 miles north of Milan, or about 9,000 miles east of Las Vegas	Bellagio.

(Alex reports from the Barnes Foundation.) Dr.

Barnes asked this French artist to create a mural for the main hall; he said it was like the rose window of a cathedral	Matisse.

In Togo: this	French.

The plot shows Mme.

Ranevsky is the owner of this title Chekhov plot	The Cherry Orchard.

This metal was discovered in 1789; it took until 1896 to find out that it was radioactive	uranium.

Dr.

Bunsen Honeydew & this lab assistant were on "The Muppet Show"	Beaker.

Doing this, you'll hold pairs of small cymbals called zills	belly dancing.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from the Barnes Foundation.) Czanne drew upon Greek mythology when he painted this title pair	Leda and the Swan.

In Sri Lanka: Sinhala & this	Tamil.

An 1888 collection of Chekhov's stories won him the prize named for this writer & compatriot	Pushkin.

A policeman could tell you the U.S.

half dollar today is about 92% this metal	copper.

This evil puppet master from "Pinocchio" shared his name with a volcanic island near Sicily	Stromboli.

Facial nerve paralysis on one side	Bell's palsy.

(Alex reports from the Barnes Foundation.)  Though she never had children of her own, this American sensitively portrayed maternal love in "Woman with a Nude Boy"	Mary Cassatt.

In Guinea-Bissau: this	Portuguese.

He's known more formally as Ivan Voynitsky	Uncle Vanya.

Among coinage metals, this one, atomic number 28, is only a fair conductor of electricity	nickel.

Set in a Washington bar, this satirical political TV show was populated by puppets from Sid & Marty Krofft	D.C.

Follies.

Nobel-winning creator of Herzog & Sammler	Saul Bellow.

He was alive for the Wright Brothers' historic flight & was John Glenn's Senate colleague when Glenn returned to space	Strom Thurmond.

The southern part of Africa is often called "Sub-" this 3 1/2-million-square-mile area	Sahara.

This woman is wanted in connection with stolen hair & the kidnapping of her boyfriend by Philistines	Delilah.

In 1805 Charles Bulfinch enlarged this city's Faneuil Hall	Boston.

Founded in 1957, Dialamerica, Inc.

is the USA's largest private company in this type of marketing	Telemarketing.

August 16, 1977 in Memphis, Tennessee	Elvis Presley.

It's the continuation of the suit coat's collar	Lapel.

The country's name is properly pronounced "Luh-Soo-Too", but is spelled this way	L-E-S-O-T-H-O.

Wanted in the case of fruit missing from the forbidden tree, this animal is considered long & dangerous	Snake/serpent.

Canberra designer Walter Burley Griffin served as this American architect's assistant from 1901 to 1906	Frank Lloyd Wright.

Harry Bogen is the dressmaker hero of the musical "I Can Get It for You" this way	Wholesale.

December 8, 1980 in New York City	John Lennon.

A region of northern Scandinavia or Russia	Lapland.

In 2000 Durban in this country hosted the 13th International AIDS Conference & the first held on the continent	South Africa.

This Egyptian crime boss is wanted in connection with ordering the death of all male Jewish children	Pharaoh.

Richard Hunt, the first American to attend the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, designed this statue's stone-&-concrete pedestal	Statue of Liberty.

[Hi, I'm Jeff Bezos, founder & CEO of Amazon.com]  It's estimated that 60% of net shoppers flag an average of 7 sites with one of these, also used in products we sell	Bookmarks.

September 18, 1970 in London	Jimi Hendrix.

The type of filmmaking seen here	Time-lapse photography.

A lion subspecies shares its name with these nomadic people of Tanzania & Kenya	Masai.

Wife of Ahab, this Baal worshiper & harlot was last seen in Jezreel	Jezebel.

Cass Gilbert designed this merchant's NYC skyscraper for 270,000,000 nickels or 135,000,000 dimes	F.W.

Woolworth (Woolworth Building).

In 1978 Campbell Soup bought this pickle producer famous for its stork symbol	Vlasic Foods.

July 3, 1971 in Paris	Jim Morrison.

Perry Farrell of Jane's Addiction & Porno for Pyros founded this mega-concert event	Lollapalooza.

Meaning "guided one", it was the title of the 1880s Sudanese leader whose forces defeated General Gordon	The Mahdi.

Wanted for treason against King David, he's known to have killed his half-brother for raping Tamar	Absalom.

Albert Speer, who designed a stadium for this city, was convicted of war crimes in trials there	Nuremberg.

Strangely, this "colorful" German company sells its classic travel alarm clocks only in black & white	Braun.

August 9, 1995 in Forest Knolls, California	Jerry Garcia.

Take your gemstones to this specialist to have them cut & polished	Lapidary.

The first division of this U.S.

fighting force spearheaded the landing at Inchon	Marines.

David Janssen had a 4-year "run" in this series; Tim Daly hopes for at least that in the remake	The Fugitive.

The Mayo Clinic was started in Rochester in this state	Minnesota.

In the movie "The Clock", Judy Garland finds love in this "stately" NYC station	Penn Station.

In 950 this instrument in Winchester Cathedral needed 70 men to work the bellows	Organ.

Singer of "My Cherie Amour" whose secret identity is Diana Prince	Stevie Wonder Woman.

His reaction to the North's invasion was "Dean, we've got to stop the blanks of blanks no matter what"	Harry S.

Truman.

This spin-off spun off a show of its own, "Checking In", with Marla Gibbs continuing as Florence Johnston	The Jeffersons.

In 1914 Mayo isolated the pure hormone thyroxin, made by this gland	Thyroid gland.

St.

Petersburg's Finland Station is famous as the site of this leader's return to Russia in 1917	Lenin.

The Minnesingers were this present-day country's counterpart of France's troubadours	Germany.

Morticia gets a big wet one from Richard Dawson on this ooky game show	The Addams Family Feud.

In 1950 Gen.

Walton Walker, the main U.S.

field commander, was killed riding in this type of vehicle	Jeep.

He provides the voice for Thurgood Stubbs on "The P.J.s"	Eddie Murphy.

In 1950 Mayo doctors Edward Kendall & Philip Hench won the Nobel Prize for their work with this steroid	Cortizone.

This capital city's main train station is known as Bahnhof Zoo, & not just at rush hour	Berlin.

Guido D'Arezzo established the series of lines now called this as the basis of musical notation	Staff.

Star of "The Exorcist" who disappears from the Maryland woods in a scary 1999 film	Linda Blair Witch Project.

In bitter battles of 1951, Pork Chop was a hill & Heartbreak was one of these	Ridge.

"Happy Days" was spun off from a segment on this "Love"ly comedy anthology show of the '70s	Love, American Style.

The Mayo-Gibbon bypass machine assumes the functions of these 2 different organs	Heart & lung.

Sherlock Holmes often left London from this station that shares its name with a battle	Waterloo Station.

From 590 to 604 this type of music would have gotten a Papal Choice Award	Gregorian Chant (named for Pope Gregory I).

Louisa May Alcott & relationship guru John Gray collaborated on this book sequel	Little Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus.

The sound of a Commie submachine gun as it "belched" out bullets gave it this nickname	"Burp Gun".

We have to cop to the fact he created "Police Story"; "The Blue Knight" was based on one of his books	Joseph Wambaugh.

In 1973 Mayo introduced to North America this scanner that uses a computer & X-rays	CT scanner.

A real depot inspired the symbol of this Wisconsin insurance company, seen here	Wausau.

A 13th century hit tells us this "is icumen in"	Summer.

Dystopian Anthony Burgess novel that's a New Zealand fish	A Clockwork Orange Roughy.

In May 1973 Sports Illustrated ran one of his short stories under the title "A Day of Wine and Roses"	Dick Francis.

This planet's atmosphere is 99% nitrogen & oxygen	Earth.

Diaphanous or sheer, as in clothing, or flimsy & obvious, as in a lie	Transparent.

The name of this meat is from the Latin "venatus", hunt	Venison.

Though he's had 5 no-hitters & the most career strikeouts of any pitcher, he's never won the Cy Young Award	Nolan Ryan.

As the master of ceremonies, this actor was the only one to reprise his stage role in 1972's "Cabaret"	Joel Grey.

Elizabeth I reportedly whitened this with a mixture of eggshell, poppy seeds, borax & lead	Her Complexion.

It wasn't until 1959 that the "far side" of this body was seen	The Moon.

Breathing in & out	Respiration.

Known botanically as "citrullus lanatus", this huge fruit grows on vines as long as 15 ft.	Watermelon.

The "Black Sox" team that threw the 1919 World Series lost to this Ohio team	Cincinnati Reds.

Actor who sang "If I Only Had The Nerve" & "If I Were King Of The Forest" in "The Wizard Of Oz"	Bert Lahr.

Houdini was famous for hanging upside-down wearing one of these restrictive overgarments	Straitjacket.

William Herschel thought he saw these around Uranus in 1787; in 1977 they were really seen	Rings.

The scientific study of birds	Ornithology.

Veal cutlets dipped in bread crumbs & cheese, then fried & covered with tomato sauce	Veal Parmigiana.

In Los Angeles, the Dodgers have had only these 2 managers	Walter Alston & Tommy Lasorda.

The only Ginger Rogers-Fred Astaire film for which these 2 brothers wrote songs was 1937's "Shall We Dance"	George & Ira Gershwin.

You have to have permission to do this in a barrel since someone died doing it in 1951	Going over Niagara Falls.

It's known for its prominences which are clouds, tubes & tongues of gasses	The Sun.

A fashion or fad maker	Trendsetter.

German sausage named for the crackling sound the skin of the sausage makes when bitten into	Knockwurst.

In 1961 owner Calvin Griffith moved this team to Minneapolis where it became the Minnesota Twins	Washington Senators.

This actress who played Mary Stone on "The Donna Reed Show" was the only 1 to co-star in 3 Elvis films	Shelly Fabares.

Icarus could have told you it's not a good idea to fly if your wings are held together with this	Wax.

British weight system based on a pound equal to 453.59 grams or 16 ounces	Avoirdupois.

The Atlantic variety of this popular fish is the largest of all flatfish	Halibut.

In 1972 owner Bob Short moved this team to Arlington, TX .

where it became the Texas Rangers	Washington Senators.

This Russian composer was portrayed by Jean-Pierre Aumont in 1947's "Song Of Scheherazade"	Rimsky-Korsakov.

This late, great circus star once performed an act with 40 -- count 'em, 40 -- lions & tigers	Clyde Beatty.

The name of this musical form probably came from the Latin "matricale", meaning in the mother tongue	Madrigal.

She got into the advice business before her twin sister, Dear Abby	Ann Landers.

Britannica defines it as "any plant growing where it is not wanted"	Weed.

In 1987 Molly Yard replaced Eleanor Smeal as president of this organization	National Organization for Women (NOW).

The U.S.

borders these 3 oceans	Arctic, Atlantic & Pacific.

Terence, a Roman poet-playwright who lived in the second century B.C., said, "Charity begins" here	At Home.

The ruthless Cesare Borgia was the model for this book by Machiavelli	"The Prince".

Evicted from his Oregon ashram, he now lives in Bombay & is called "Zorba The Buddha"	Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh.

A member of the sundew family, it requires about 10 days to fully digest an insect	Venus Flytrap.

Int'l club that "promotes putting off until later those things that needn't be done today"	Procrastinator's Club.

There's a national park on the island of St.

John in this U.S.

possession	U.S.

Virgin Islands.

Robert Louis Stevenson said, "Marriage is .....

a field of battle, and not a bed of" these	Roses.

In his notebooks this Renaissance artist claimed, "The Medici created and destroyed me"	Leonardo Da Vinci.

Herbert Ross, who directed the film "Steel Magnolias", is married to this sister of Jackie Onassis	Lee Radziwill.

Plant whose twigs are used for dowsing & whose leaves & bark are used to make an astringent	Witch Hazel.

One must be a member of this fraternal group in order to belong to the Shriners	Masons.

North Dakota has its Devils Lake & Wyoming its Devils one of these	Devils Tower.

In "A Study in Scarlet" this author called London "that great cesspool"	Arthur Conan Doyle.

Plays were either comedies, tragedies or these love tales about woodland goddesses & shepherds	Pastorals.

William J.

McCarthy is president of this union	Teamsters.

Name for a low, enclosed bed covered with glass or plastic for starting plants before the season	Cold Frame.

Arm of Al-Anon that's specifically for young people between the ages of 12 & 20	Al-Ateen.

The Raritan is the longest river wholly within this state	New Jersey.

Poet who wrote, "The woods are lovely, dark & deep, but I have promises to keep..."	Robert Frost.

Boccaccio work narrated by 3 men & 7 women fleeing the plague in Florence	"The Decameron".

This historian & former Librarian of Congress was teaching history at Harvard while studying law at Yale	Daniel Boorstein.

This climbing tropical shrub was named for a French South Seas explorer	Bouganvillea.

Social welfare organization founded in the 19th century, whose bimonthly publication is "The War Cry"	The Salvation Army.

One of the largest of these shallow channels in the U.S.

is the Bartholomew in N.

Louisiana	Bayou.

"Always do right." he wrote; "This will gratify some people and astonish the rest"	Mark Twain.

The world's most populous democracy	India.

As well as trash & absorbent pet material, it can also mean the organic surface layer of the forest floor	litter.

Since 1301 this title has belonged to the heir apparent to the British throne	the Prince of Wales.

Though the 1871 Chicago fire began in this family's barn, their house suffered only minor damages	the O'Learys.

To get us started, a serving of this dish named for an oilman: oysters topped with spinach & then baked	Oysters Rockefeller.

Arte Moreno bought the baseball team in 2003 & renamed it the Los Angeles Angels of this place	Anaheim.

A formal reduction in rank, status or position	demotion.

Formed at the Earth's surface, basalt is the extrusive type of this "Big 3" type of rock	igneous.

Heirs want to stay on the good side of this, the person mainly charged with carrying out a will's provisions	the executor.

The first successful print of this future partner of James Ives was of a fire in Manhattan	(Nathaniel) Currier.

Waiter, we'd like 2 services of this chilled cream-potato-leek soup	vichyssoise.

The address of Angel Stadium is on a street named for this singing cowboy	Gene Autry.

The DM in Korea's DMZ	demilitarized.

Heat rising from within the Earth is mostly from this type of decay of elements like uranium & thorium	radioactive decay.

Peter Faneuil, who gave this city its hall, inherited his uncle's fortune after another nephew was cut off for marrying	Boston.

Maria Theresa ordered this Italian opera house built after a fire destroyed the Royal Ducal Theatre in 1776	La Scala.

To heat up my chilly bones, bring out a large bottle of this warmed & fermented rice drink from Japan	sake.

"Vlad's Pad" at Angel Stadium is named for this right fielder & 2004 league MVP	Vladimir Guerrero.

Cognitive deterioration, sometimes "senile"	dementia.

Immense boulders in random & odd places were some of the first evidence that these "Ages" happened	Ice Ages.

Charlene, sole heir of the late Alfred of this Dutch brewing giant, is worth $4.9 billion	Heineken.

The Bank of America is around today because A.P.

Giannini saved its currency from this city's 1906 fire	San Francisco.

I'm in the mood for a little Italian: how 'bout an order of anitra all'aranci, this fowl cooked in orange sauce	duck.

Sportswriters refer to the Angels as these appropriate circular items, like the one in the team's logo	the Halos.

To object or voice opposition	demur.

1 of the 3 Cs in the geological-period mnemonic "camels often sit down carefully--perhaps their joints creak..."	Cretaceous (or Cambrian or Carboniferous).

If Richie Rich's father dies, his legacy is managed by one of these, from the Latin for "guard"	a custodian.

After a 1624 fire Christian IV replanned this Northern European city & renamed it Christiania	Oslo.

For dessert, bring me some of this apple-filled rolled pastry whose name is from the German for "whirlpool"	strudel.

This Angel manager spent 13 years catching for the Dodgers	Mike Scioscia.

The young women "d'Avignon" in the title of a painting by Picasso	Demoiselles.

(Jon of the Clue Crew reports from Columbia Gorge Discovery Center in Oregon.)  Here in Columbia Gorge, Clark sketched this bird, & Lewis wrote, "I believe this to be the largest bird in North America"	a California condor.

Meg Whitman heads up this Internet company where you can bid on items & sell them, too	eBay.

Instruction	Education.

This author's "The Secret Man" detailed the history of his interactions with Deep Throat	Bob Woodward.

Like Rome, this capital of Portugal is built on 7 hills	Lisbon.

In hockey this shot is always taken with a full swinging stroke	slap.

Named for a structural section, it's the type of boat the boys set off in; it ran aground on day 2	a keelboat.

Henry's great-grandson William runs this car company which was started in 1903	the Ford Motor Company.

Giving birth	Labor.

This writer got her bestselling groove back with "The Interruption of Everything"	(Terry) McMillan.

This beautiful lake in Banff National Park is named for a British princess	Louise.

It means "to strike with a whip" & also follows "whip" in a word for an injury	lash.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from Columbia Gorge Discovery Center, Oregon.)  The explorers got invaluable directions from the Indian tribe Lewis called "Pierced Nose" & we know as this	the Nez Perce Indians.

(One of television's most recognizable commercial spokespersons delivers the clue.)  Oh, no--I lost another one to this mortgage company	Ditech.

A person's condition or disposition	State.

As of Dec.

4, 2005 this pregnancy prep book had spent 247 weeks on the N.Y.

Times Bestseller List	What To Expect When You're Expecting.

This highest capital in the Andes was founded on the site of an earlier settlement in 1548	La Paz.

As a noun it includes the cerebrum; as a verb it means "to smash on the head"	brain.

One tough part of the journey up the Missouri was portaging this feature of the river in June & July 1805	the Great Falls (on the Missouri).

With a "familial" English name, this Japanese maker of office equipment started out selling sewing machines	Brother.

mc2	Energy.

This author's Dr.

Kay Scarpetta returned to the scene of the crime with "Trace"	Patricia Cornwell.

In 1994 this Norwegian town played host to the Winter Olympics	Lillehammer.

To hit with a fist, or to herd cattle like a cowboy	punch.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew stands next to a covered pile of crates in the Columbia Gorge Discovery Center, Oregon.)  A 5,000-sq.-ft.

exhibit at the Columbia Gorge Museum shows the 30 tons of cargo Lewis & Clark took when setting out from this city in 1804	St.

Louis.

A brother of one of the rappers in Run-DMC, this entrepreneur runs Phat Farm	Russell Simmons.

Ex-soldiers' financial arrangements	Veterans' Affairs.

This NPR guy make list with "Me Talk Pretty One Day"	David Sedaris.

Fodor's Travel Guide to France calls this town "the porcelain collector's mecca"	Limoges.

A suit of cards represented by a trefoil	club.

She gave herself the third-person name "Phantom", the "no-person" she was from 19 months until she was almost 7	Helen Keller.

These brothers first published their "Fairy Tales" in 1812 as "Kinderund Hausmarchen"	the Brothers Grimm.

The poker face seen here dropped out of this university just short of a degree to pursue a career in acting	Harvard.

Nonpotent potable in common to a fuzzy navel & a screwdriver	orange juice.

A stenographer employed to transcribe an official verbatim record of legal proceedings	a court reporter.

If you're right on queue for a movie in Piccadilly, you're in one of these	a line.

Al Smith, Mario Cuomo	New York.

She & her tres cher ami Jean-Paul Sartre collaborated on the political & literary journal Modern Times	Simone de Beauvoir.

It's the TV show on which the poker face seen here co-starred for most of the 1970s	The Mary Tyler Moore Show.

Stolichanya, or stoli to its friends, is a brand of this	vodka.

Marsupial term for a self-appointed tribunal that parodies existing principles of law	a kangaroo court.

Of stay in bed, hit someone on the head or rub till it's red, what you do if you cosh	hit someone on the head.

Calvin Coolidge, Michael Dukakis	Massachusetts.

For "The Autobiography of Malcolm X", Malcolm collaborated with this author	Alex Haley.

In a memorable 1987 big screen biography, the poker face seen here played this 1950s music legend	Ritchie Valens.

Invented in Cuba, a mojito is made with lime juice, club soda, sugar, ice, mint leaves & this kind of alcohol	rum.

It's a special judicial assembly with power over the administration of estates & wills of deceased people	probate court.

On British TV's "Top of the Pops" this Booker T.

& the MGs hit might be titled "Spring Onions"	"Green Onions".

Beauford Jester, John B.

Connally, Jr.	Texas.

Sidney Howard helped this author dramatize "Dodsworth"	Sinclair Lewis.

This poker face seen here earned an Oscar nomination for her work in 1994's "Bullets Over Broadway"	Jennifer Tilly.

This brand of liqueur made its debut in Dublin on November 26, 1974	Bailey's (Irish Cream).

AKA amicus curiae, it's someone not party to the litigation but who offers information pertinent to the case	a friend of the court.

If you're a British secret agent, you may have a license to kill, but you spell license this way	L-I-C-E-N-C-E.

Henry S.

Thibodaux, P.B.S.

Pinchback	Louisiana.

George S Kaufman died in June 1961; this man, his frequent collaborator, in December of that year	Moss Hart.

This Ontario-based poker face has a Nabokovian first name	Lolita Davidovich.

Mon Dieu!  This French liqueur was originally made at the Abbey of Fecamp by the monks for which it is named	Benedictine.

Law students try mock hypothetical legal cases in this kind of court	moot court.

If you can't get through to your friend in Brighton, you wouldn't say the telephone is busy, you'd say it's this	engaged.

Karl F.

Rulvagg, Floyd Bjornsterne Olson, Jacob Aall Ottesen Preus	Minnesota.

It's a vital sign: BP	blood pressure.

Polonius uses the word "outbreak" about Laertes' fiery mind, not this title character	Hamlet.

This enigmatic seafarer in 1954's "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" was portrayed by James Mason	Captain Nemo.

On board Gemini 8, he performed the first successful docking of 2 vehicles in space	Neil Armstrong.

Muscat is its capital city	Oman.

It's elemental: Zn	zinc.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from horseback.) Shakespeare used this word in "The Merry Wives of Windsor" to catch someone's notice; I use it to stop my horse	whoa (ho also accepted).

Hans Conried voiced this villain in a 1953 Disney classic	Captain Hook.

A star of D.W.

Griffith's "America", Neil Hamilton played Commissioner Gordon on this TV show	Batman.

The 3 main forts in Muscat date from the 1580s when this small Iberian nation conquered & occupied it	Portugal.

(Kweisi Mfume reads the clue.)  This award, the NAACP's highest honor, was first bestowed in 1915 & named for a past chairman of the NAACP	the Spingarn Medal.

For water, it's 0 degrees Celsius: F.P.	freezing point.

From Latin for "indecent", this word in "Love's Labour's Lost" is the type of book banned by the Comstock Law	obscene.

For his role as Manuel, Spencer Tracy won an Oscar for this 1937 fish story	Captains Courageous.

From 1979 to 1981, Neil Goldschmidt was Secretary of this department abbreviated D.O.T.	the Department of Transportation.

Completed in 2001, the "Grand" one of these in Muscat is the 1st in the country to be open to non-Muslims	a mosque.

This future Supreme Court justice won 29 of the 32 cases he argued before the court as a lawyer for the NAACP	Thurgood Marshall.

Used of radio waves: MHz	megahertz.

This word in "Henry VI Part 2" meant blase & world-weary, not having to do with nephrite	jaded.

Hooray for this Groucho Marx character from "Animal Crackers"	Captain Spaulding.

In the '50s, Neil H.

McElroy was this man's Secretary of Defense	President Eisenhower.

Qaboos bin Said al Said rules from his palace in Muscat under this title that means "ruler" in Arabic	sultan.

(Kweisi Mfume reads the clue.)  In 1995 this widow of slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers became the first woman to head the NAACP	Myrlie Evers(-Williams).

When the stork won't come: IVF	in vitro fertilization.

The word "fashionable" came into vogue with Ulysses' speech to Achilles in this play	Troilus and Cressida.

Errol Flynn is a doctor who is forced to become a pirate in this 1935 action fest	Captain Blood.

In 1989, this "bright" Neil Sheehan work about the Vietnam War won the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction	A Bright Shining Lie.

A main strategic value of Muscat stems from its position at the entranceway to this 90,000 sq.

mi.

body of water	the Persian Gulf.

Chauffeur Alf Bicknell was the inspiration for this 1965 song	\"Drive My Car\".

The Florida wild black type of this carnivore is down to about 3,000 animals & needs its habitat protected	a bear.

In 2010 she got engaged to a choreographer she met on the set of "Black Swan"	Natalie Portman.

About 635 violins still exist among the 1,100 instruments this 17th century man constructed	Stradivarius.

This item on a bicycle lets drivers see cyclists at night	taillight (or reflector).

Four-poster is a type of this, sometimes with a canopy	a bed.

United Farm Workers president Arturo Rodriguez' father-in-law was this man who died in 1993	Csar Chvez.

A New York Times article said this, falling in winter in the Adirondacks, may be more toxic for fish than its liquid counterpart	acid snow.

Alice Cooper's Phoenix eatery has dishes named for ballplayers & is named this, like the Hall of Fame site	Cooperstown.

Message for you, sir...!  In 1897 he founded his wireless telegraph & signal company in London	(Guglielmo) Marconi.

This 5-letter word can mean "overweight"	plump.

You don't have to work in the movie industry to have this furnishing named for a professional	a director's chair.

German emperor Frederick III's was this German-born British prince consort	Prince Albert.

As you know from the movie "Medicine Man", the rain forests hold essential plants for treating this disease	cancer.

(Hi.

I'm Kyra Sedgwick.)  Thanks to my appearances in movies like "The Woodsman" & "Murder in the First", I have a 1, the best score possible, in this popular party game	Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon.

This food network personality grew up in her film producer grandfather's restaurant, DDL Foodshow	Giada De Laurentiis.

Like a horse	equine.

A jardiniere is a decorative stand for holding these	plants.

Catherine Zeta-Jones' is this legendary actor	Kirk Douglas.

Jake Gyllenhaal got his first driving lesson from this late movie star & auto racer	Paul Newman.

This Italian-born man began his brief tenure as pope on August 26, 1978	John Paul I.

The part of an atom's nucleus that fits the category	a neutron.

To add a southwestern touch, furnish a room with the rug seen here, named for this second most populous Indian tribe	Navajo.

Jefferson Davis' was this U.S.

president	Zachary Taylor.

Angelina Jolie's uncle, Chip Taylor, wrote this song that says, "you make my heart sing"	"Wild Thing".

In 2002 he wrote "Baudolino", a historial novel set in 12th century Europe; what an author ...

author ...

author	Umberto Ecco.

Pertaining to the scientific use & study of very low temperatures	cryogenic.

By definition, this type of china cabinet has a slightly projecting middle section	breakfront.

Daniel Day-Lewis' was this dramatist	Arthur Miller.

His "Heroic" Period, from about 1803 to 1812, produced his "Eroica" Symphony	Beethoven.

He plays novelist Hank Moody, a New Yorker transplanted to L.A., on "Californication"	David Duchovny.

"_____ By Woods On A Snowy Evening"	Stopping.

After his murder, the conspirators did not gain control, as power was passed on to the Second Triumvirate	Julius Caesar.

A student's may be 3-ring or spiral bound	a notebook.

Father was quite the cutup in Prof.

Charles Fried's class at this Massachusetts law school founded in 1817	Harvard.

One of Verdi's first masterpieces was this Shakespearean opera with an intense sleepwalking scene	Macbeth.

James Roday is Shawn Spencer, a police consultant who pretends to have otherworldly powers, on this comedic series	Psych.

"I _____ Lonely As A Cloud"	Wandered.

Carl Henrik Anckarsvard was the leader of the coup that overthrew King Gustav IV of this country	Sweden.

Common name for the patella	the kneecap.

Father has rooms near the Court of Chancery in this state where half of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated	Delaware.

Charles Gounod's mother thought he might become a priest, & one of his best-known works is this setting of a Catholic prayer	Ave Maria.

(I'm Joel McHale.) When you're not watching "Community", you can catch me on this show on E! that satirizes other shows (though sometimes they do the job themselves) "Hint, hint.

It's not the Kardashians."	The Soup.

"She _____ In Beauty"	Walks.

In 1921 Reza Pahlavi helped with a coup that eventually brought his son to power in this country	Iran.

It's often said, "Build a better" this "and the world will beat a path to your door"	a mousetrap.

Coincidentally, today father's squash opponent was also his deponent, as father was taking this	a deposition.

He was 24 years older than his friend Mozart, but outlived him by almost 20 years	Franz Joseph Haydn.

The title pair of this TNT show is Boston detective Angie Harmon & medical examiner Sasha Alexander	Rizzoli & Isles.

"To An Athlete _____ Young"	Dying.

This S.

American president was the leader of an unsuccessful coup in 1992 & was the target of a coup in 2002	Hugo Chavez.

Lunar term meaning mentally deranged or dreamily romantic	moonstruck.

Father learned about the quaint problems of the poor at Chicago's "Edwin F.

Mandel" this type of "Clinic"	legal aid.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from the Juilliard School.)  The string quartet is a stripped down, personal expression of a composer's feelings; Debussy wrote only one, but it's the only work that he gave one of these numbers	an opus.

We are bananas about this celebrity stylist; the show titled her "Project" is seen on Bravo	Rachel Zoe.

"On First _____ Into Chapman's Homer"	Looking.

In Pakistan Nawaz Sharif tried to dismiss this military leader in 1999 but was overthrown by him instead	Musharraf.

It's the 9-letter name for a type of restaurant that specializes in steak & other meat on the bone	chophouse.

As a non-partner who has a formal relationship with a firm, father is said to be "of" this to Bisbee, Pell & Bisbee	Counsel.

As many mourned, this minister wrote in a letter, "Washington is gone!  Millions are gasping to read ...about him"	Parson Weems.

Born in Brooklyn in 1944, he was mayor of New York City from 1994 to 2002	Rudy Giuliani.

David Lee Roth, Sammy Hagar, David Lee Roth	Van Halen.

In 2004 this Dutch airlines merged with Air France	KLM.

Spaniards named these furry rodents for the Chincha Indians	chinchilla.

This, food cooked in a central pot on the table, is from the French for "to melt"	fondue.

A native of Copenhagen, or to stoop to do something	dane/deign.

He received a degree from NC State & pushed papers at his own Raleigh law firm	John Edwards.

Roger Daltrey	The Who.

In 1999 Ford snatched up the auto unit of this company for 50 billion kronor	Volvo.

Some of the quills of the Eurasian species can be 12 inches, equal to about half of its body length	a porcupine.

It's a Spanish baked custard coated with caramel	flan.

To take a quick look, or the top of a mountain	peek/peak.

Formerly a U.S.

Secretary of Energy & U.N.

Ambassador, he's now the Governor of New Mexico	(Bill) Richardson.

Anthony Kiedis	Red Hot Chili Peppers.

In an $80 billion deal these 2 oil companies joined forces in 1999 in the biggest merger up to that time	Exxon & Mobil.

These rodents of the Plains received their name because they "bark" like canines	prairie dogs.

It's the Japanese name for certain species of puffer fish that contain lethal poison but can be eaten as a delicacy	fugu.

Antagonistic, or an inexpensive lodging place for young people abroad	hostile/hostel.

He played the CIA chief in "No Way Out" & represented Tennessee in the U.S.

Senate	Fred Thompson.

Trent Reznor	Nine Inch Nails.

In 2004 FedEx acquired this chain of stores, & you can copy me on that!	Kinko's.

Contrary to popular belief, mass drownings by the Norway species of this rodent are not suicidal in nature	lemmings.

The name of these long, flat egg noodles means "little ribbons"	fettuccine.

It's a sausage, or the absolute least best	wurst/worst.

At age 31, he was Cleveland's mayor	Dennis Kucinich.

Adam Levine	Maroon 5.

Despite opposition from the 2 founders' families, this company merged with Compaq in 2002	Hewlett-Packard.

A S.

Am.

delicacy, this water-dwelling herbivore was declared a fish by the Vatican so it could be eaten during Lent	a capybara.

(Jon of the Clue Crew fries something up in the kitchen of the Little Diner in Canutillo, TX.)  In Spanish, the name of these fried, tightly rolled tortillas, filled with seasoned beef or chicken, is also the name of the woodwind instrument they resemble	flauta.

A dish, or a braid of hair	plate/plait.

In 1610 the Spanish began building the Palace of the Governors in what is now this Southwest city	Santa Fe.

On "Fat Actress", she poked fun at herself, playing a version of herself struggling with her weight	Kirstie Alley.

The 2 symbols seen on pirate flags & bottles of poison	skull & crossbones.

Writing about this author's "The Deerslayer", Twain called its pathos "funny" & "its love-scenes odious"	(James Fenimore) Cooper.

In 1982 he co-anchored "NBC Nightly News" with Tom Brokaw, & you could say his name is...	Roger Mudd.

Pronounced one way, it's the top of the head; pronounced another, it's French chopped liver	pt or pate.

In 1701 this college was founded in Conn., in part to counter the perceived liberalism of Harvard	Yale.

We are "desperate" for you to name this actress seen here, who has a master's degree in psychology	Marcia Cross.

Seen here is a computer emoticon used to represent this Beatle	John Lennon.

(Alex reads the clue from the Mark Twain House in Hartford, CT.)  Mark Twain made notations in the books he owned; he wrote, "Can any plausible excuse be furnished for the crime of creating the human race" in this man's "Voyage of the H.M.S.

Beagle"	Darwin.

The "Roger" to Michael Moore's "Me", in 1990 this GM chairman handed over the job to Robert Stempel	(Roger) Smith.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew blows out a match and sticks it in a bottle.) The moisture in the air combines with particles of dust from the smoke to form this; Los Angeles is known for it	smog.

The Molasses Act of 1733 placed high duties on molasses & this potent potable from non-English possessions	rum.

She portrays real-life research medium Allison DuBois	(Patricia) Arquette.

Baby, you're going to be a star, & we're going to put you next to this symbol on Turkey's flag	a crescent.

One of Twain's favorite books was the "Diary of" this Englishman; Twain credited it as the model for his book "1601"	(Samuel) Pepys.

I'll have a side of this 13th century English philosopher & creator of the "Opus Majus"	Roger Bacon.

It's short for one of the muscles, or a large open space on campus surrounded by buildings	a quad.

His 1699 proposal for a permanent French trading post on the Detroit River didn't include a car dealership	Cadillac.

On "Brothers & Sisters", she plays right-wing TV pundit Kitty Walker	Calista Flockhart.

It's what this symbol means on video equipment (& maybe fighter jet control panels, we don't know)	eject.

A copy of the New Testament in Arabic was given to Twain during the cruise that inspired this 1869 travel classic	The Innocents Abroad.

He was to fly as lunar module pilot on the first manned Apollo mission but tragically never made it	Roger Chaffee.

From the Welsh, it's a steep, rugged rock, or a rough, broken projecting part of a rock	a crag.

In the 1620s this Dutch company founded New Netherland in what later became N.Y., N.J., Delaware & Connecticut	the Dutch West India Company.

Like her "Grey's Anatomy" character Izzie Stevens, she used to be a model	Katherine Heigl.

At her swearing-in, Speaker Pelosi wore this color (also a longtime symbol of power) as a symbol of the Suffragettes	purple.

"The only poem I have ever carried about with me", said Twain, was this classic, best enjoyed with "a jug of wine"	the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam.

The fifth Chief Justice of the United States, he succeeded John Marshall in 1836	Roger Taney.

Used in linoleum & paints, linseed oil is made from the seeds of this plant	flax.

This product was reintroduced in 1906 with trimethylxanthine as the sole remaining stimulant	Coca-Cola.

What the "D.C." stands for	the District of Columbia.

Color of a lucky "letter day"	red.

While 2 of its wheels head toward produce, 1 goes to dairy, the other to checkout	a shopping cart.

Varieties include Chinese & Dijon	mustard.

Turned down to be an "Our Gang" member, she became top box office star of 1935	Shirley Temple.

The District's oldest neighborhood, it was named for a king	Georgetown.

Johnny Cash is known for wearing only this color on stage	black.

Tennis serve that touches net before dropping into proper court, it's replayed	a let ball.

A sideways handspring	a cartwheel.

Type of food that comes in shapes of bow ties, elbows & wagon wheels	pasta.

Number of the sequel the following was the theme of	Rocky III.

287 miles long, it flows past Washington & induces "fever" in ambitious politicians	the Potomac River.

Baby, sky, & steel	blue.

You win this when you pick the winners of 2 successive horse races	the Daily Double.

You can load it in your 8-track	a (tape) cartridge.

Also known as an alligator pear	an avocado.

For the first time in '68, the Academy Awards were held in this auditorium, its current home	the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion.

Though this mound rises only 8	Capitol Hill.

Broadway's nickname	the Great White Way.

What the letters in "scuba" stand for	self-contained underwater breathing apparatus.

The 1st graduate of the U.S.

Naval Academy to become president	Jimmy Carter.

California vegetable with a crown & a heart	an artichoke.

In his best English Bronx accent he cried "Yonder lies the castle of my father"	Tony Curtis.

Former Secretary of State for whom Washington, D.C.

International Airport is named	John Foster Dulles.

The 3 colors that make up the dots on a color TV screen	blue, green, and red.

On an official archery target, it's the color of the bull's eye	yellow (or gold).

The non-chocolate version are called "blondies"	brownies.

Some 40% of this country's land has been reclaimed from the sea	the Netherlands.

A wunnerful, wunnerful bandleader	Lawrence Welk.

White supremacy group depicted as heroes in film classic "Birth of a Nation"	the Ku Klux Klan.

This red bird is the state bird of 7 states	the cardinal.

Its name comes from the Middle English word "bumblen"	a bumblebee.

Baby book author who ran for president in '68	Dr.

Spock.

Both in size & population, it's largest Scandinavian country	Sweden.

In 1937 he was "in the mood" to start a band	Glenn Miller.

Name of FBI "sting" operation that sent 4 former Congressmen to prison in '83	Abscam.

Depending on the species, a bird can have 940 to 25,000 of them	feathers.

Common name of an apiculturist	a beekeeper.

Nickname of late Washington Senator Henry Jackson	Scoop Jackson.

19th century Sardinia took the lead in unifying this country	Italy.

As famous for his marriages as his music; once wed Ava Gardner & Lana Turner	Artie Shaw.

32 inmates & 11 guards were killed in '71 uprising at this NY prison	Attica.

All 16 species of the Hawaiian honeycreeper are on this list	the endangered species list.

A large crowd of bees on the move	a swarm.

U.S.

ambassadors to this country have included Anne Armstrong & Joseph Kennedy	Great Britain.

In '67 this last king of Greece went into exile	Constantine (II).

Benny Goodman got good "vibes" from him	Lionel Hampton.

Despite his "fortunate" nickname, this gangster was deported to Italy in '46	"Lucky" Luciano.

The 3 classes of a honeybee colony	a drone, a queen, and a worker.

Florida Congressman who champions the senior citizen	Claude Pepper.

Only predominanty Muslim country entirely in Europe	Albania.

"Royal" bandleader whose first two names were Edward Kennedy	Duke Ellington.

He wrote the Howard Hughes "autobiography" that sent him to jail	Clifford Irving.

Only 4 state governors serve terms this long	two years.

President elected to 2nd term with 523 electoral votes, the greatest number in any election	Franklin D.

Roosevelt.

About its eruption in 79 A.D., an observer wrote that "broad sheets of fire and leaping flames blazed at several points"	Vesuvius.

A hard blow or punch	a sock.

"The Shoulder of Athos, the Baldric of Porthos, and the Handkerchief of Aramis"	The Three Musketeers.

In 2004 the most valuable guitar, this rocker's Stratocaster "Blackie", sold for $959,500 at auction	(Eric) Clapton.

Dessert topping (the part after "Reddi")	W-I-P.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents the clue from Eataly in New York.)  Parmesan cheese comes from the northern Italian city of Parma, where the whey from cheese making is fed to the local pigs, helping create another famous local product, this	prosciutto.

At least 57 people died as a result of this U.S.

volcano's May 18, 1980 eruption	Mount St.

Helens.

To avoid or go around the edge of	a skirt.

"Four Thousand Leagues Under the Pacific"	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.

In the 1991 remake of "Father of the Bride", she played the mother of the bride	Diane Keaton.

Mr.

Potato Head maker (the part after "Play")	S-K-O-O-L.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents the clue from Eataly in New York.)  The Piedmont region is known for bread sticks, which an enthused Napoleon called "little sticks" of this city, that holds a famous shroud	Turin.

This youngest surface volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii has distinctive lava formations like Pele's Hair	Kilauea.

When followed by "down", it means to eat voraciously	scarf.

"Hester and Pearl"	The Scarlet Letter.

He's the voice of country music seen here	Blake Shelton.

Drugstore with 4,700 outlets (the part before "Aid")	R-I-T-E.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents the clue from Eataly in New York.)  The rugged Tuscan landscape has a vast number of microclimates, so this wine, made from up to 90% local sangiovese grapes, can very widely from vineyard to vineyard	Chianti.

In 1908 members of Ernest Shackleton's expedition became the first to climb this continent's Mount Erebus	Antarctica.

Hard, quick gasps for air	pants.

"Mr.

Badger"	The Wind in the Willows.

After his death in 1974, his son Mercer took over his band	Duke Ellington.

"Kid tested, mother approved" cereal	K-I-X.

This lake lies in a caldera formed when Oregon's Mount Mazama volcano collapsed 7,000 years ago	Crater Lake.

A policy seeking to reduce pollution is referred to as this & trade	cap.

"The Lotus Eaters" & "Circe"	Ulysses.

His "Boyz N the Hood" earned him the first-ever best director Oscar nomination for an African American	John Singleton.

Amazing, phenomenal cleaner from SC Johnson	F-A-N-T-A-S-T-I-K.

U.S.

News & World Report calls this New Haven school the best value college, even with tuition at over $38,000 a year	Yale.

According to tradition, this prop used by magicians should be made of hazel wood cut at sunrise	a wand.

1976: Nadia Comaneci; 2008: Nastia Liukin (champions all-around)	gymnastics.

Patrick Jephson, her aide in the 1990s, doesn't aid her reputation with his book "Shadows of a Princess"	Princess Diana.

To hear about "My Highland Lassie" / My poor heart, it yearns / For he wrote 'em, I just quote 'em / He is...	(Rabbie) Burns.

The Union Jack (4)	flag.

According to the Cat Fanciers' Assoc., the top breed of pedigreed cat is this feline with a Middle Eastern name	Persian.

This duo first teamed up in 1975; one was a clown college graduate & juggler, the other, a silent magician	Penn & Teller.

1964: Joe Frazier; 1996: Wladimir Klitschko	boxing.

Vladislav Surkov, a longtime aide to this former president, is known as the Kremlin's "Gray Cardinal"	(Vladimir) Putin.

"The Lamb" & "The Fly" are far from a mess / But this man's "The Tyger" / Gets all the good press	(William) Blake.

Velour, velvet or tricot (6)	fabric.

Not only is Hartsfield-Jackson in Atlanta the world's busiest airport, this airline based there is the largest	Delta.

This magician's feats include walking through the Great Wall of China	David Copperfield.

1924: Helen Wills; 2004: Justine Henin-Hardenne	tennis.

(Hi.

I'm Chris Matthews.)  Here's a tip for you: for 6 years, I was the top aide to this Democrat from Massachusetts when he was Speaker of the House	Tip O'Neill.

Being called "a gargoyle of a man" / May have caused him to lose all hope / But his "Rape of the Lock" was good / He's...	(Alexander) Pope.

Long crack in a rock (7)	fissure.

Not surprisingly, this taste sensation is rocking as Ben & Jerry's top-selling ice cream flavor	Cherry Garcia.

This 16-letter synonym for sleight of hand comes from the Latin for "nimble finger"	prestidigitation.

1904: Thomas Kiely, with 6,036 points; 2000: Erki Nool, with 8,641	the decathlon.

In 1948 White House aide Lauchlin Currie told this committee he wasn't a Soviet spy; today we know he was	the House Un-American Activities Committee.

"A hundred naked maidens" / Danced in his "Faerie Queene" / Give this Elizabethan credit / He sure could set a scene	(Edmund) Spenser.

Islamic legal opinion or directive (5)	fatwa.

In 2011 this Nissan model was Consumer Reports' top pick for family sedan	the Altima.

In November 2000 this illusionist known for his street magic was encased in a block of ice for 63 hours in Times Square	David Blaine.

1896: Ellery Clark, 20' 10"; 2000: Ivan Pedroso, 28' 3/4"	the long jump.

In 2009 an aide to the Defense Sec.

was ensnared in the scandal over a couple who crashed this White House event	the White House State Dinner.

This romantic poet was really not clairvoyant / In 1822 / He put "Hellas" into view / But we wish he was more buoyant	Shelley.

Smooth move in a bridge game (7)	finesse.

Of the top 10 cities in population within city limits, this one of 1.4 million is the only state capital	Phoenix, Arizona.

He was at radio station WHO back in the 1930s & while president, went back to Des Moines	Ronald Reagan.

[Hi, I'm Dick Butkus, Hall of Fame linebacker of the Chicago Bears]  Before moving to Soldier Field in 1971, the Bears played its home games for 50 seasons in this Cubs park	Wrigley Field.

One of the hottest stocks of summer 2000 was for this nautical action film starring George Clooney	The Perfect Storm.

Created by God to rule the Earth in Genesis	Adam & Eve.

It's the double-talk name for the tropical food fish also known as the dolphinfish	Mahi-mahi.

One of these might be thrown in an English pub or shot from a blowgun in Peru	Dart.

He dedicated the Rathbun Dam July 31, 1971	Richard Nixon.

[Hi, I'm Champ Bailey, college football's top defensive player of 1998]  The award for top defensive player in college football is named for Bronislaw Nagurski, whose nickname was this	Bronco.

With the release of "Me, Myself, and Irene", this actor's HSX stock shot up $125	Jim Carrey.

Jesus' Earthly parents	Joseph & Mary.

A bean with mottled markings shares its name with this equine	Pinto.

In a nursery rhyme, a queen makes some of these only to have them stolen by a knave	Tarts.

Lincoln has a monument in Council Bluffs; this other president has a grave in West Branch	Herbert Hoover.

[Hi, I'm Franco Harris, Hall of Fame running back of the Pittsburgh Steelers]  In the 1972 playoff game against the Oakland Raiders, I caught a miraculous, game-winning pass that's been nicknamed this	"The Immaculate Reception".

Millions of HSX shares of this scary movie "project" were traded a full year before it was released	The Blair Witch Project.

"Hairy" couple from Judges 16	Samson & Delilah.

You'll have a leg up if you know this is the correct term for a baby hippo	Calf.

Grammatically speaking, the word "the" is definitely one of these	Article.

In 1887 Cleveland attended this city's Corn Palace (or should we say Maize Palace)	Sioux City.

[Hi, I'm Raghib Ismail of the Dallas Cowboys]  While at this school, I was named MVP of the Orange Bowl on the first day of the '90s	Notre Dame.

"RBRIDE" was the HSX designation for this hot-performing stock & movie	Runaway Bride.

The sons of Rebekah	Jacob & Esau.

Ethiopian feline variety seen here	Abyssinian.

They can be a city's highways or a person's blood vessels	Arteries.

In 1975 Ford attended this, the subject of a 1945 Rodgers & Hammerstein film musical	Iowa State Fair.

[Hi, I'm Shannon Sharpe of the Denver Broncos]  In 1995 this Cowboys running back tied Jim Brown's record by scoring his 100th career TD in his 93rd NFL game	Emmitt Smith.

At $4,147 a share, this star of "Firestarter" is one of the highest-valued actresses listed on HSX	Drew Barrymore.

God & Jesus are called by these 2 Greek letters in Revelation	Alpha & Omega.

Useful in long-term avian study, it's the placing of metal identification tags on the legs of wild birds	Banding.

One of these might be flip, flow or pie	Chart.

A third, more sexually explicit version of this 1928 D.H.

Lawrence novel was finally published in the U.S.

in 1959	"Lady Chatterley's Lover".

In 44 B.C.

the senate of Rome wanted his head -- on all silver coins	Julius Caesar.

Completed in 1345, the Ponte Vecchio crosses over the Arno River in this European country	Italy.

"Hef"	Hugh Hefner.

He began composing "The Nutcracker Suite" in 1891	Pyotr Tchaikovsky.

In baseball one's behind home plate & one's behind each base	Umpire.

"The Parson's Tale", which deals at length with the 7 deadly sins, concludes this 14th century work	"The Canterbury Tales".

The animal featured on the electrum coin of Lydia, it got the world's coinage off to a roaring success	Lion.

It's the largest Scottish city on the banks of the Firth of Forth	Edinburgh.

Aviation's "Mysterious Billionaire"	Howard Hughes.

"Suite Bergamasque" contains this composer's famous piece "Clair De Lune"	Claude Debussy.

It's bordered by Kenya to the east & Sudan to the north	Uganda.

Ian Fleming introduced James Bond in this 1953 novel, which became a 1967 film starring David Niven	"Casino Royale".

Around 334 B.C.

this Macedonian's stater became a world currency	Alexander the Great.

Granite pillars support the roof of this man's burial "hall" near "The Gate of Heavenly Peace"	Mao Tse-tung.

Georgia's "Miss Lillian"	Lillian Carter.

It's the title of the "chasmic" 1931 suite heard here	"Grand Canyon Suite".

It's the island instrument heard here	Ukulele.

This James Joyce work is a dream sequence in the minds of the Earwicker family	"Finnegans Wake".

A Knossos coin of the 4th century B.C.

had this creature on the front & a labyrinth on the reverse	Minotaur.

In 1995 the Pacific island of Kiribati shifted this "line", making it the first nation to see the morning sun each day	International Date Line.

Cinema's "Man of A Thousand Faces"	Lon Chaney.

Go "trolling" with this Edvard Grieg suite that shares its name with an Ibsen work	"Peer Gynt".

In a hit song by the Irish Rovers, these animals didn't make it onto Noah's Ark	Unicorns.

The title of this E.M.

Forster novel refers to the house that belonged to Henry Wilcox' first wife	"Howards End".

Smyrna, which claimed to be the birthplace of this poet, put him on a 2nd century B.C.

coin	Homer.

It's the river that runs through Ludwigshafen & Mannheim	Rhine.

"The People's Lawyer" & 2000 Green Party presidential candidate	Ralph Nader.

"Mars" & "Uranus" are famous works within his 1916 suite "The Planets"	Gustav Holst.

This technique uses high-frequency waves & is often used to view fetuses	Ultrasound.

Using the aliases James Ryan & Harry Place, they boarded a steamer for Argentina in February 1901	Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid.

This building in Philadelphia houses the inkstand used by the Declaration signers	Independence Hall.

He played outfield for the Birmingham Barons before returning to the Bulls	Michael Jordan.

During the Civil War, Lincoln suspended this right not to be held in prison without court consent	Habeas corpus.

Kathleen Turner is a psychopathic housewife on a killing spree in this 1994 John Waters comedy	Serial Mom.

Some chairs, A toy horse, The cradle when the wind blows	Things that rock.

12 inches of hot dog	Foot long.

The Whizstreet "Up In Smoke" Museum is a web site exhibiting the art of these colorful cigar items	Cigar bands.

This TV actor heard here is not really known for his singing:  "Picture yourself...in a boat...on a river..."	William Shatner.

From the Latin "to refer", it's the way by which laws proposed by a legislature are put to popular vote	Referendum.

Billy Crystal is meant to kill Danny DeVito's mother according to DeVito's plan in this 1987 comedy	Throw Momma From The Train.

Thunder, Ol' Man River, White House Easter Eggs	Things that are rolled.

To pick up a check	Foot the bill.

Barry Goldwater donated his Kachina doll collection to the Heard Museum in this state capital	Phoenix.

This supermodel starred with William Baldwin in the film "Fair Game", which was fair game for critics	Cindy Crawford.

The first of these "colorful" laws was enacted in 1619 to punish failure to attend church	Blue laws.

Title of the 1981 biopic about the woman seen here:  "I wouldn't turn against you if it meant my life.

You are my life."	Mommie Dearest.

Coconuts, Udders, Canaan	Things that give milk.

It's a small trunk kept at the foot of a soldier's bunk	Footlocker.

The Eisenhower Center in this Kansas town houses numerous mementos of the president's life & career	Abilene.

He quit as the Beatles' bass player to become a painter in 1961	Stuart Sutcliffe.

Failure to pay a building contractor  may result in his leaning on you with this type of lien	Mechanic's lien.

According to the theme song, this cat "is a bad mother" -- shut your mouth	Shaft.

A beaten wrestler, A frat brother's girlfriend, A dead butterfly	Things that are pinned.

In tennis, it happens when the server steps over the baseline before hitting the ball	Foot fault.

A Brussels art & history museum has a giant statue from this Chilean island on exhibit	Easter Island.

He gave up his cushy European royalty job to become emperor of Mexico, & was executed there in 1867	Maximillian.

Now a body of lawyers, it once referred to a rail separating spectators from courtroom proceedings	Bar.

Bill Cosby, Raquel Welch & Harvey Keitel play this title trio in a movie about an ambulance service	Mother, Jugs & Speed.

Hair, Punch, A volleyball	Things that are spiked.

A person near death is said to have one	One foot in the grave.

There's no doubt about it, he was born Harry, but we know him as "Bing"	(Harry Lillis) "Bing" Crosby.

This capital whose name means "muddy estuary" was named for the 2 rivers that wind through it	Kuala Lumpur.

For the first 8 weeks after fertilization, an unborn child is called this, from the Greek for "full"	Embryo.

"Proud Mary"	Creedence Clearwater Revival & Ike & Tina Turner.

In the Aesop fable, he's so far ahead he takes a nap; what a loser!	Hare.

Sylvia's tub times	Plath's baths.

Nickname of Robert E.

Lee's dad	"Lighthorse" Harry Lee.

Endau-Rompin Park is one of the last homes of the Sumatran species of this horned mammal	Rhinoceros.

Named for the sac surrounding the fetus, this fluid cushions the fetus from injury	Amniotic fluid.

"Live And Let Die"	Wings & Guns N' Roses.

He was the Democratic presidential frontrunner in 1987 until his "Monkey Business" did him in	Gary Hart.

Ezra's Afghans	Pound's hounds.

He's the Harry heard here:  "Dayyy...."	Harry Belafonte.

Of proton, electron or neutron, with "Saga", it's Malaysia's national car	Proton.

Pre-natal process that created the images seen here:	Ultrasound.

"California Girls"	The Beach Boys & David Lee Roth.

By allowing rebel forces to escape after Gettysburg, this Union general may have prolonged the war 2 more years	George Meade.

Alexander's expectations	Pope's hopes.

Watergate-era chief of staff, his initial "H" stood for Harry	HR Haldeman.

The states of Sarawak & Sabah on this island make up about 6% of Malaysia's land area	Borneo.

From the Greek for "flat cake", this uterine wall organ connects to the fetus via the umbilical cord	Placenta.

"Blue Bayou"	Linda Ronstadt & Roy Orbison.

She became Texas' governor in 1990 when her frontrunner opponent kept blundering in interviews	Ann Richards.

William's anacondas	Blake's snakes.

This trumpet-playing band-leader helped Sinatra get started, & lost him to the Tommy Dorsey band	Harry James.

Go "strait" to this port & visit St.

Paul's Church where St.

Francis Xavier's body was held until moved to India	Malacca.

Even at birth the skull isn't fully fused, leaving these, also called "soft spots"	Fontenelles.

"Soul Man"	The Blues Brothers & Sam & Dave.

Heavy armor & heavy rains defeated the large French army as much as Henry V's men at this 1415 battle	Agincourt.

Sir Philip's renal organs	Sidney's kidneys.

The 5th edition of this work, published in 1676, included a section on fly fishing by Charles Cotton	The Compleat Angler (by Izaak Walton).

When your prom date leaves the dance without you, recall the proverb, this "heals all wounds"	time.

In 2007 Marie Osmond blamed allergies & L.A.

air quality for her waltz into unconsciousness on this show	Dancing with the Stars.

Carob yields a sweet pulp that is roasted, ground, & used as a substitute for this flavoring	chocolate.

Long before it was a capital, this city on the Thames River was a communications center	London.

Sounds unlucky, but there were this many books in Lemony Snicket's "Series of Unfortunate Events"	13.

The name of this, also called a fireplug, is partly from a word for "water"	a hydrant.

This saint of Assisi said, "Where there is hatred, let me sow love...

where there is despair, hope"	Francis.

Simon said "Simply dreadful...

appalling" on this show that debuted on Fox in June '02	American Idol.

Bursting with beta carotene, the melon we call this is actually a type of muskmelon	the cantaloupe.

Though Kyoto remained the imperial capital, Tokugawa Ieyasu made this obscure village his capital	Tokyo.

Sonnets are rhymed poems with this many lines	14.

The name of this bread spread goes all the way back to bous, a Greek word for "cow"	butter.

Thinking of his sins, poet Heinrich Heine said, "Of course" God will do this to "me; that's his business"	forgive.

Justin Timberlake had a rough day on this MTV show: phony "tax agents" said he owed $900,000 & raided his house	Punk'd.

Cannellini is a white kidney bean, cannelloni is a type of this	pasta.

A small village sacked by Mongol as well as Afghan invaders, it later became the largest Persian city	Tehran.

Rack all your pins in bowling & 10 are set up; rack your balls in a game of 8-ball & this many are set up	15.

These sparkly fake gems are partly named for a river that flows through Germany	rhinestones.

In 1903 Pope Pius X wrote, "Where justice is lacking there can be no hope of" this, pax in Latin	peace.

We're still waiting for a "Des Moines" version of this CBS crime show to accompany the Vegas, Miami & N.Y.

ones	CSI.

This word was once used for the meat of any hunted animal; now it refers to deer meat	venison.

This capital was created because Rio de Janeiro was overcrowded & isolated from the rest of the country	Brasilia.

Including wisdom teeth, the number of teeth typically found in the fully developed adult upper jaw	16.

The name of this type of reference work is from the Greek for "cyclical" (i.e., well-rounded) & "education"	an encyclopedia.

This "Candide" author helped popularize the saying, "The perfect is the enemy of the good"	Voltaire.

Bryan Fuller created this show about a piemaker whose touch can bring the dead to life	Pushing Daisies.

Mostly made from the whites, egg substitutes don't contain fat or this artery-clogging lipid	cholesterol.

One of the oldest continuously inhabited cities, it became a capital in 1946 when Syria gained independence	Damascus.

In "The Sound of Music", Liesl was "going on" this number	17.

This 5-letter synonym of "question" comes from the Latin for "to ask" or "to seek"	a query.

Melville said this abolitionist who was hanged in Charlestown, Va.

in 1859 was "the meteor of the war"	John Brown.

To start your golf round, put your ball up on one of these little pegs	a tee.

In April 1803 Napoleon renounced this territory in America "with the greatest regret"; so we bought it	the Louisiana Territory.

Catch the flue here, where fire goes up in smoke	a chimney.

The Scott brothers sold rolls of this in 1890; 2-ply came later	toilet paper.

Alphabetically last of our solar system's planets	Venus.

Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color line in 1947 when he was signed by this team	the Dodgers.

Kermit the Frog's eyeballs were originally made of these light sports balls	ping pong balls.

In 1807, after a trip up the Hudson, he wrote, "The power of propelling boats by steam is now fully proved"	(Robert) Fulton.

If you're sleepless in Seattle you're suffering from this malady	insomnia.

Marie Antoinette is credited with introducing these rolls to France	croissants.

Though this book has the word "last" in its title, it's only the second of the 5 "Leatherstocking Tales"	The Last of the Mohicans.

Harlem had one of these literary & cultural rebirths in the '20s & '30s	renaissance.

A target ball called a "pallino" is thrown first in this Italian ball game	bocce.

On July 12, 1808 this large city's Missouri Gazette became the first newspaper published west of the Mississippi	St.

Louis.

'Tis this season (of the year)	autumn.

Event at which Jesus performed his first miracle, providing enough wine for a feast	the wedding at Cana.

In 1966 Congress authorized the Uniform Time Act, creating this from the last Sunday in April to the last Sunday in October	daylight savings time.

Edward & Burghardt were the middle names of this organizer of the NAACP	(W.E.B.) Du Bois.

In racquetball, the ball must strike the front wall before hitting this	the ground (or the floor).

In 1807 Jefferson tried to have this man, his first vice president, convicted of treason	Aaron Burr.

6-letter word meaning mirthless, sober, or grave	solemn.

The first meeting of this international assembly convened November 15, 1920	the League of Nations.

The Battle of Castillon in 1453 was the last battle of this war that began back in 1337	the Hundred Years' War.

In 1957 Martin Luther King helped establish this religious organization, the SCLC	Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

The ball & bat used in this sport are seen here	cricket.

In 1805 U.S.

Marines stormed the shores of this Barbary state at Derna, helping to end the raids on American ships	Tripoli.

Please don't forget this word, from the Greek for "oblivion"	amnesia.

On December 7, 1787, Delaware became the 1st state to do this	ratify the U.S.

Constitution.

The name of the last dynasty to rule Vietnam, it's the family name of about half Vietnam's people	Nguyen.

This character says, "It's Christmas Day!  I haven't missed it.

The Spirits have done it all in one night"	Ebenezer Scrooge.

He was shot on Sept.

6, 1901 while shaking hands with a crowd of well-wishers at the Pan-American Exposition	McKinley.

In 2008 he swam 200 meters freestyle in a record 1 minute, 42.96 seconds	Michael Phelps.

A large sack	a big bag.

This country is "The Land of the Shamrock"	Ireland.

In mammals, milk is secreted by these glands	mammary glands.

& Honey, could you pick up some of the Huggies brand of these on the way home?	diapers.

On May 17, 1954 the Supreme Court ruled on this case, unanimously outlawing public school segregation	Brown vs.

the Board of Education.

This manager went out on top when he called it quits Oct.

31, 2011	La Russa.

Excellent eats	good food.

Victoria Land, one of its regions, lies north of the Ross Ice Shelf	Antarctica.

Many countries have laws requiring that milk undergo this process that guards against pathogens	pasteurization.

& Honey, if you get a chance, could you wash my favorite pants?  You know, the ones named for that 19th century woman	bloomers.

The Egyptian government opened his mummy case on March 6, 1924	Tutankhamun.

In 2011 this QB was a first-round draft pick by Carolina	(Cam) Newton.

Humorous wordplay about a quill	a pen pun (a pun about a pen accepted).

Look east! Japan has long been known by this dawning nickname	the Land of the Rising Sun.

This sugar makes up almost all the carbohydrates in milk	lactose.

& Honey, it's May--we gotta call your mom in London for Mother's Day; don't forget it's this many hours ahead of N.Y.

time	five.

He dissolved England's Rump Parliament on April 20, 1653	Cromwell.

He split 2 1980 title fights with Roberto Duran	Sugar Ray Leonard.

A hole in the ground for your baked pastry	a pie pit.

After killing Abel, Cain was banished to the sleepy-sounding land of this place, east of Eden	Nod.

Canned milk that has 60% of the water removed is known by this 10-letter term	evaporated.

& Honey, could you take the minivan to the mechanic? It's still making noise here, also called the gearbox	the transmission.

The accident of April 25-26, 1986 at this facility was caused by a poorly designed experiment at its reactor unit 4	Chernobyl.

Since 2009 the Mercury, Storm & Lynx have been championship teams in this league	the WNBA.

A speechless minute arachnid	a mute mite.

The name of this state is from Choctaw & means it's the land of the "red people"	Oklahoma.

Mongolians cool off with airag, a slightly fermented version of this alliterative liquid	mare's milk.

& Honey, while you're up, can you grab my copy of "Caligula" by this French-Algerian author? He's so existential	(Albert) Camus.

Meaning "first", it can precede color, election or health care	primary.

On a map	a capital.

He's the transatlantic TV, film & stand-up comic seen here	Ricky Gervais.

Not just women but men over 50 also need at least 1,200 mg of this bone-building element daily	calcium.

He was cornered & fatally wounded by federal troops on a farm near Port Royal, Virginia on April 26, 1865	John Wilkes Booth.

Ernest L.

Thayer is represented by a pair of quotations, both from this baseball poem	"Casey at the Bat".

Aussies are familiar with this term for native inhabitants that once referred to pre-Roman Italians	aborigines.

In math, this set	the null set (or empty set).

Snow White & Prince Charming are characters on this TV show set in the town of Storybrooke	Once Upon a Time.

For many centuries this drug derived from a poppy was the main painkiller used in medicine	opium.

President Jefferson sent this fellow Virginian, later our 5th president, to negotiate the Louisiana Purchase	(James) Monroe.

Fred Allen gets 2 zingers, including "California's a wonderful place to live--if you happen to be" this fruit	orange.

An adjective meaning "first", or a letter like "F" in F.

Murray Abraham	an initial.

In a weather report (keep your response P.C.)	partly cloudy.

This man who died in 1918 was Snoopy's cursed nemesis in "Peanuts"	the Red Baron.

Once the open main court of a Roman house, it's now a skylit central court in an office building or hotel	atrium.

In 1699 the capital of Virginia was moved from Jamestown to this city	Williamsburg.

Kenneth Grahame's 2 quotes both come from this children's book	The Wind in the Willows.

Something that's leading in every respect is "first &" this superlative adjective	foremost.

In astrology	Venus.

In a 2011 movie comedy, the 3 title "horrible" these were summarized as psycho, maneater & tool	bosses.

The Latin name for ancient Troy, it's also a broad flat hipbone	Ilium.

In 1763 this gifted orator & lawyer presented the "Parson's Cause", an early test case of royal authority	Patrick Henry.

The 2 quotes by Charles Evans Hughes, the USA's 11th this, include "The Constitution is what the judges say it is"	Chief Justice.

Jung was fond of this word, an original pattern from which all similar things are based	an archetype.

In particle physics	an alpha particle.

This late country singer called his autobiography "Thirty Years of Sausage, Fifty Years of Ham"	Jimmy Dean.

It's the muscle tissue that forms the middle layer of the heart's walls	myocardium.

In 1716 Virginia's governor claimed possession of this scenic valley for England	the Shenandoah Valley.

The first of this French playwright's 2 quotes begins, "A great nose indicates a great man"	Edmond Rostand.

The island where this man's son washed ashore was later named Ikaria	Daedalus.

She commanded Samson, "Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth"	Delilah.

Kurt Cobain & Krist Novoselic met through Buzz Osborne, leader of the Melvins, & found freedom as this group in 1987	Nirvana.

Hobble, wrap, micro mini	skirt.

Keep a big donor's gifts flowing: put him on this "of directors" or "of governors"	board.

Home to a major U.S.

Air Force base, this capital was founded in 1683	Dover.

In 1887 Joseph Conrad gained literary material sailing as this on a ship bound for Java	first mate.

This disciple wouldn't believe Jesus' resurrection until he saw "in his hands the print of the nails"	Thomas.

This Jimmy Page foursome first played together as part of the session group on P.J.

Proby's "Three Week Hero"	Led Zeppelin.

Action, kid, opera	gloves.

This service's code says donors to a 501 (c)(3) organization can generally take a tax deduction	the IRS.

Delaware has this many representatives in the U.S.

House	1.

Ryan Howard's day job with the Phillies	first baseman.

In Exodus Moses & Aaron inform pharaoh that the lord has this very strong 4-word suggestion	"Let my people go".

Jack wed Meg & took her name, & in 1997 formed this band on a lark, with him on bass & her on drums	The White Stripes.

Puritan, Peter Pan, choir-boy	collars.

Chilly alliterative term for phoning someone to ask for money without any prior notice	cold call.

Designated in 1999, the tiger swallowtail is Delaware's official one of these insects	butterfly.

In 1975 Donald Johanson found a group of 13 hominid fossils he dubbed this, like the Nixons or Trumans	the first family.

Herod thought that Jesus was this man "whom I beheaded: he is risen from the dead"	John the Baptist.

This punk group was the brainchild of entrepreneur Malcolm McLaren, who asked John Lydon to be its lead singer	The Sex Pistols.

French, Cuban, wedge	heels.

Donations in the form of equipment or time instead of money are called "in" this 4-letter word	in kind.

Nicknamed "Pete", this former gov.

of Delaware once worked in the chemical co.

his ancestors founded in 1802	du Pont.

This nuclear capability is designed to completely knock out an enemy's ability to respond to your attack	first strike.

In Proverbs this king writes, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge"	Solomon.

This Southern California group was originally assembled as a backup band for Linda Ronstadt	The Eagles.

Hobo, envelope, beaded	purses.

In fundraising DM stands for this mail, which aims to scare up new donors	direct mail.

Sailing under a Dutch flag, this English navigator & explorer discovered Delaware in 1609	Henry Hudson.

In a symphony orchestra, the leader of this group serves as concertmaster	first violin.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew holds up a sugar cube.)  At sea level, at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, 1 cubic centimeter of air, the size of a sugar cube, contains 45 billion billion of these, from the Latin for "little mass"	a molecule.

This 1984 movie recounted the friendship of an American journalist & a translator in war-torn Cambodia	The Killing Fields.

Born in 1803 in Tennessee, Sarah later attended school in this state due east, husband James' birthplace	North Carolina.

John Travolta & Debra Winger demonstrated the fine art of riding a mechanical bull at Gilley's in this 1980 film	Urban Cowboy.

This instrument heard here reminds me of something; hmm...I'm starting to remember	a harp.

All things considered, NPR is this popular listening place	National Public Radio.

The name of this green pigment found in plants is partly from the Greek for "green"	chlorophyll.

In "Changeling" she plays a mom who takes on the LAPD after her son disappears & a different boy is returned to her	Angelina Jolie.

In the 1840s First Lady Sarah, seeing James enter rooms unnoticed, made this song a regular feature of his entrances	"Hail To The Chief".

This energy drink was originally developed by a Thai businessman in 1962 & sold under the name Krating Daeng	Red Bull.

This guitar family member's circular body is covered in front with tightly stretched plastic or parchment	a banjo.

Plan for your golden years by putting money in an IRA, one of these	an individual retirement account.

Newton's first law, about bodies at rest & in motion, is also called the law of this	the law of inertia.

African captives revolt aboard their slave ship & then have to stand trial in this movie based on an 1839 event	Amistad.

During the Civil War, Mrs.

Polk's Tennessee home had this official status & both union & CSA leaders visited	neutrality.

In 1996 Standing Rock College of Fort Yates, N.D., a Native American school, changed its name to this for a Sioux chief	Sitting Bull (College).

George Harrison enjoyed this instrument seen here	a sitar.

A PAC, one of these, might help your electoral chances	a political action committee.

Graphite is a soft form of this element	carbon.

In this 1990 movie Robin Williams played a doctor who roused a group of patients out of their catatonic states	Awakenings.

In 1877 Sarah got the first one of these ever hooked up in Nashville	a telephone.

In 1923 James Cummings & Earl McLeod designed the first one of these using a Model T frame & a wooden blade	a bulldozer.

On this pre-piano item played by Lurch on TV, the strings are plucked by points connected with the keys	a harpsichord.

Yes, sir! A PFC is one of these in the military	a private first class.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows a graph on the monitor.)  Symbolized lambda, the total distance covered by one complete cycle of oscillation from peak to peak or trough to trough is called this	a wavelength.

In this movie Meryl Streep as Aussie mom Lindy Chamberlain exclaimed, "The dingo's got my baby!"	A Cry In The Dark.

In 1888 Mrs.

Polk pushed a button in Nashville & these came on at the Cincinnati Centennial Expo	the lights.

"Bull City", this place's nickname, is derived from a product sold by American Tobacco	Durham.

It ain't slang for money, dough or cashola, but it is the instrument seen here	a lute.

To a home viewer, a DVD is one of these	a digital video disc.

He was also the U.S.'s best-paid sportswriter, with stories of people like Chicago O'Brien & Jack the Bookie	Damon Runyon.

In 1997 a Houston airport was renamed in honor of this recent president	George H.W.

Bush.

In dessert: Burton Baskin &...	Irv Robbins.

This Chicago native worked as a DJ in Vietnam & a weatherman in Nashville before hosting "Wheel of Fortune"	Pat Sajak.

"Where The Streets Have No Name", "With Or Without You"	U2.

On your phone & in conversation, these numbers mean information	411.

It can be a gamble to hang the well-known image of dogs playing this card game	Poker.

Nearly 91 when he died the same day as Thomas Jefferson, he was the longest-lived president	John Adams.

In tools: Duncan Black &...	Alonzo Decker.

In the film "Animal House", this Chicago native played wild & crazy "Bluto" Blutarsky	John Belushi.

"Iris", "Slide"	Goo Goo Dolls.

To Grandpa it meant he'd stirred up & fed a fire; to his grandson it means happy or excited	Stoked.

The Mitchell, South Dakota "palace" seen here is built of & named for this cereal grain	Corn.

It was the last name of the 17th & 36th presidents	Johnson (Andrew & Lyndon).

In a brokerage: William Paine &...	Wallace Webber.

Tarzan was the most famous creation of this Chicago-born writer	Edgar Rice Burroughs.

"Angel", "Building A Mystery"	Sarah McLachlan.

This brand name means to eat voraciously, or to vacuum	Hoover.

The work of "Artists Barely in Control of the Brush" is seen at Boston's MOBA, museum of this art	Bad art.

For helping to end the Russo-Japanese War, he was awarded the 1906 Nobel Peace Prize	Theodore Roosevelt.

In paint: Henry Sherwin &...	Edward Williams.

On the big screen, this Chicagoan has played Rick Deckard, Jack Ryan & Han Solo	Harrison Ford.

"Doo Wop (That Thing)"	Lauryn Hill.

A sports team member who sees many women at once fits 2 definitions of this word	Player.

Julian Schnabel won acclaim & abuse with his 1979 paintings that featured this tableware, broken in pieces	Dishes.

In the campaign slogan "Tippecanoe and Tyler Too", he's Tippecanoe	William Henry Harrison.

In paper products: John Kimberly &...	Charles Clark.

You're keeping up with the Joneses if you name this producer of "Thriller" who was born in Chicago in 1933	Quincy Jones.

"How's It Going to Be", "Semi-Charmed Life"	Third Eye Blind.

"What An Appealing Young Lady" can be translated to this title of a 1999 movie	She's All That.

Tattooed showman The Enigma had tiny versions of these embedded in his skull, perhaps for a Satanic look	Horns.

About two-thirds of this U.K.

country's area is in its highlands & islands	Scotland.

This best-known Greek cheese, from the milk of sheep & goats, has been made for thousands of years	Feta.

Sancocho, a stew made with 5 to 7 meats, is a specialty of this country, Haiti's next-door neighbor	Dominican Republic.

Football great Dierdorf	Dan.

Henry I's famous father was this conqueror who reigned from 1066 to 1087	William the Conqueror.

Settlers began living in this section of New Orleans in the early 18th century	French Quarter.

When Sudan takes you to a place by this river, you can sit by the Blue or White one	Nile.

98% of Greece's population belongs to this church	Greek.

Don't worry if you see this word on a Barbados menu: it refers to a fish, not the star of "Flipper"	Dolphin.

"Law & Order" actor Bratt	Benjamin.

Pope Leo X named Henry VIII "Defender of the Faith" for his written attack on this German Protestant leader	Martin Luther.

In a French restaurant, they're called pommes frites	French fries.

Pier 21, considered "Canada's Ellis Island", is in this Nova Scotia city	Halifax.

Greek cafe music features a lute called a bouzouki & this woodwind, the klarino	Clarinet.

If you order "mountain chicken" in Dominica, you won't get chicken but one of these amphibians	Frogs.

Jeans maker Strauss	Levi.

King Henry III extensively rebuilt this abbey where he had been formally crowned in 1220	Westminster Abbey.

In France this musical instrument is called "cor d' harmonie"	French horn.

Tea & coconuts are top products of this country, the "Pearl of the Indian Ocean"	Sri Lanka.

Crowds flock to Dodona, Philippi & Thassos to see festivals of this art performed in ancient venues	Theater.

Adventurous eaters in Grenada may dine on this burrowing mammal (it's best to remove the armor first)	Armadillo.

Novelist Heller	Joseph.

Victory at Agincourt in 1415 earned this king a visit from the Holy Roman Emperor	Henry V.

It was waged in North America from 1754 to 1763	French and Indian War.

In 1991 the Yanomami tribe in this country was awarded a reserve 3 times the size of Belgium	Brazil.

Patricia Storace titled her 1996 book on travels in Greece "Dinner with" this goddess of the underworld	Persephone.

Puerto Ricans love to drink the juice of this fruit they call parcha -- maybe it makes them feel "amorous"	Passion fruit.

Explorer Pike	Zebulon.

These 2 warring royal houses were united in 1486 when Henry VII married Elizabeth, the daughter of Edward IV	Lancaster & York.

They're formed by folding back & fastening a wide band at the end of a sleeve	French cuffs.

This book begins, "All states and dominions which hold or have held mankind are either republics or monarchies"	\"The Prince\" (by Machiavelli).

1940-1945, 1951-1955	Winston Churchill.

Hilo, I love you, you're the seat of this county that's also a "Big Island"	Hawaii.

1 of 2 "dream"y Top 20 songs recorded by Cass Elliott with The Mamas and The Papas	"California Dreamin'" & "Dream a Little Dream of Me".

If his employee's price is $50.00, Bill could buy a billion of the "98" version of this operating system	Windows.

Elliott Gould, James Brolin	Barbra Streisand.

I hates it when the cops put these "bracelets" on me after a bust	Handcuffs.

1990-1997	John Major.

Paris (population 8,730) is the seat of Bourbon County in this state	Kentucky.

Title that follows "When I want you in my arms, when I want you and all your charms, whenever I want you..."	"All I Have to Do Is Dream".

In this state where he lives, Bill could pay the governor's salary for 413,000 years	Washington.

Heather Locklear, Pamela Anderson	Tommy Lee.

You mugs, I need a "can opener", a tool used to open one of these, not a tin can	Safe.

1937-1940	Neville Chamberlain.

This Iowa city, the seat of Black Hawk County, has a name Wellington would remember	Waterloo.

"Cheer up sleepy Jean, oh what can it mean to" one of these "and a homecoming queen"	A daydream believer.

In 1997 Americans spent about $40 billion on these, & many wanted to be in Bill's	Shoes.

Roger Vadim, Tom Hayden	Jane Fonda.

Roll out these "bones", boys, so we can play some games of chance	Dice.

The Elder, 1766-1768; The Younger, 1783-1801, 1804-1806	William Pitt.

Quincy, Illinois is the seat of a county with this presidential name	Adams.

In 1959 Bobby Darin wailed, "Every night I hope and pray", she "will come my way"	"Dream Lover".

OK, we're not allowing for inflation, but Bill could afford over 8,000 Steve Austins, this title character	The Six Million Dollar Man; The "Bionic Man".

Ava Gardner, Mia Farrow	Frank Sinatra.

One day I might go legit & get a cush job as a "gumshoe", a private one of these	Detective/private eye.

1945-1951	Clement Atlee.

As I walked out in the streets of this city, I was in the seat of Webb County, Texas	Laredo.

In the 1986 film "Blue Velvet", Dean Stockwell peerforms a lip-synched rendition of this Roy Orbison hit	"In Dreams".

Bill could easily bid on Bolivia: their GDP, this annual figure, is less than half what he's worth	Gross Domestic Product.

Ursula Andress, Linda Evans	John Derek.

Keep your head low...I just saw a "Salt & Pepper", one of these, go by	Police car.

Henry Fleming shares a tent with a loud soldier & a tall soldier in this Stephen Crane novel	"The Red Badge of Courage".

His epitaph reads, "Founder of Boys Town and Lover of Christ and Man"	Father Flanagan.

You could call Henry Thomas Ishmael & Patrick Stewart Ahab in this 1998 miniseries	Moby Dick.

Bayer hailed the FDA's endorsement of this drug for use during a suspected heart attack	Aspirin.

The Honda is a slip knot used by cowboys to make this tool of the trade	Lasso.

After her election, this British prime minister said that she owed "everything to my father"	Margaret Thatcher.

Joanna Higgins' 1998 novel "A Soldier's Book" tells the story of Ira Stevens, a Union P.O.W.

in this notorious prison	Andersonville.

While rounding the tip of South America in 1520, this Portuguese explorer named Cape Virgines & Patagonia	Ferdinand Magellan.

Vanessa Williams played Calypso & Greta Scacchi was the long-suffering Penelope in this 1997 epic	The Odyssey.

Alexander the Great cut it with his sword after being told that whoever could undo it would rule Asia	Gordian Knot.

This author's Mr.

Bumble declared that "The law is a ass, a idiot"	Charles Dickens.

He drew on his wartime nursing experience for the poem "The Wound-Dresser"	Walt Whitman.

It's been said that the 1831 Russian capture of Warsaw inspired him to write his C minor etude	Frederic Chopin.

(Hi, I'm Kristoff St.

John from "The Young and the Restless")  Earlier in my career, I appeared in "Roots: The Next Generation", playing this author as a boy	Alex Haley.

It is second only to "Gunsmoke" as TV's longest-running primetime drama series	Knots Landing.

In 1803 Jacques Delille wrote, "Fate chooses our relatives, we choose" these	Our friends.

His works about the war include the essay "What I Saw of Shiloh" & the story "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"	Ambrose Bierce.

This family that once controlled Nicaragua saw 2 members killed -- the father in 1956, a son in 1980	Somoza.

Robert Duvall sat tall in the saddle as Augustus McCrae in this 1989 4-part western	Lonesome Dove.

This South American civilization used Quipu, a system of knots, to record dates & large sums of figures	Incas.

"When the one great scorer comes to write against your name, he marks -- not that you won or lost -- but" this	How you played the game.

Jeff Shaara has written a prequel & a sequel to this 1974 novel about Gettysburg by his father Michael	"The Killer Angels".

This discoverer of Uranus thought the sun was an inhabited body with a luminous atmosphere	William Herschel.

(Hi, I'm Stephen Collins of "7th Heaven")  In 1994 I played Ashley Wilkes in this miniseries sequel to "Gone with the Wind"	Scarlett.

From the Turkish for "napkin", it's the art which creates decorative items by knotting cord, rope or string	Macrame.

In his 1918 poem "Prairie", he wrote, "I tell you the past is a bucket of ashes"	Carl Sandburg.

The 3 people who did this most recently were Midori Ito, Muhammad Ali & Crown Prince Haakon of Norway	Lighting the Olympic flame at the Olympic Games.

1900: "Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies..."	"The Wizard of Oz".

There are this many houses in the astrological subdivision	12.

Joe Brown, Greg Mathis & Mills Lane joined the ranks of these on TV	TV judges.

The Maker's Mark bourbon distillery in Loretto in this state is a national historic landmark	Kentucky.

She was Wanda in "A Fish Called Wanda" & Willa in the sort-of follow-up "Fierce Creatures"	Jamie Lee Curtis.

In math, it means raised to the third power	cubed.

1843: "Marley was dead: to begin with"	"A Christmas Carol".

The only moon in our solar system that astrologists say has an influence circles this planet	the Earth.

In 1994 a flaw found in this company's new Pentium processor cost it $475 million in a recall	Intel.

Whiskey is usually about 40% alcohol, which is equal to this number in proof	80.

Thaddaeus in the 1965 film "The Greatest Story Ever Told", he got his greatest role ever in 1972 as Max Klinger	Jamie Farr.

Native Americans called this fence material the "Devil's rope"	barbed wire.

1854: "When I wrote the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, I lived alone in the woods..."	"Walden; or, Life in the Woods".

Chinese astrology has 5 classical elements, each associated with a planet; knock this when you think Jupiter	wood.

His 1997 meeting with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams was the first for a British P.M.

& an IRA leader in 76 years	Tony Blair.

The world's most popular whiskey is this color Johnnie Walker	Red.

This comic was Bundini Brown in "Ali" & Steamin' Beamen in "Any Given Sunday"	Jamie Foxx.

Kidded & teased (like Adam did to Eve, perhaps?)	ribbed.

1976: "In our family there was no clear line between religion and fly fishing"	"A River Runs Through It".

The masculine signs are the air signs, including Gemini, & these signs, which include Leo	fire signs.

Hello!  In May 1999 scientists found this famous sheep might be susceptible to premature aging	Dolly.

In the 1880s Ontario-brewed Club whiskey got this new national name	Canadian Club.

In a 2002 WB show people got to view his "experiments" with his hidden camera practical jokes	Jamie Kennedy.

If you've been clubbed, you've been made unconscious; if you've been this, you've been made a knight	dubbed.

1973: "There were 117 psychoanalysts on the Pan Am flight to Vienna and I'd been treated by at least six of them"	"Fear of Flying".

This planet spends an average of 20 years in each sign of the Zodiac	Pluto (because it's so far away).

Born Louis Eugene Walcott, he led a million man march in Washington, D.C.

in 1995	Louis Farrakhan.

This "Regal" brand assures us it's "Without Question the Best of the Scottish Blends"	Chivas Regal.

Jamie in this family that includes N.C.

& Andrew said, "Everybody in my family paints -- excluding possibly the dogs"	Wyeth.

In the Bible she was mom to Moses & Aaron	Jochebed.

In 1985 Sukarno-Hatta Int'l Airport was opened at Cengkareng just west of this city's center	Jakarta.

Milt Jackson, heard here, was one of the masters of this instrument	vibes (vibraphone).

This scientist & author of "2001" wrote, 'Any...advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic"	Arthur C.

Clarke.

The snap-brim style of this accessory tuns up in the back & down in the front & has a dented crown	hat.

This king died in 1760, leaving it to his grandson & successor to lose the American colonies	George II.

Wan, or a bucket	pale/pail.

Indonesia's Molucca Islands were once called this because they were famous for growing cloves, nutmeg & mace	Spice Islands.

We think jazzman Ron Carter is this kind of "guy"; we know he plays the same kind of bass	stand-up guy.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew reports from the Field Museum in Chicago)  Snail shells are in a pattern usually called this; they add new coils as the snail ages	spiral.

Along with Snap, they've been appearing on boxes of Rice Krispies since the 1930s	Crackle & Pop.

A yearly football game is played near the NC/SC border to "settle" the issue of this president's birthplace in 1767	Andrew Jackson.

Sugary, or a group of hotel rooms	sweet/suite.

Most of the world's supply of this medicine comes from Indonesia's cinchona trees	quinine.

Saxophonist Sonny Rollins was one of the leaders of the "hard" type of this style that began in the '40s	bebop/bop.

His 1947 oceanic expedition began in Callao, Peru & ended 10 days later in Polynesia	Thor Heyerdahl.

This TV series that debuted September 18, 1964 featured finger-snapping in its theme	The Addams Family.

This 1909 Nobel Prize winner once failed the entrance exams at the Univ.

of Bologna, Italy	Guglielmo Marconi.

A negative vote, or a horse's whinny	nay/neigh.

On Dec.

27, 1949, after 3 years of fighting, Indonesia was granted its independence from this country	the Netherlands (Holland).

At the 2000 Grammys the Best Boxed Recording Package was this late trumpeter's "Complete Bitches Brew Sessions"	Miles Davis.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Field Museum in Chicago)  This spider, named for a mammal, doesn't wait patiently for prey, but hunts it down	wolf spider.

A snap fastener is simply a ball-and-this, like your hip joint	ball-and-socket.

In 1961 scared villagers thought he was a downed U2 pilot until he removed his helmet & spoke Russian to them	Yuri Gagarin.

Lies in the sun, or people who live in the Pyrenees	basks/Basques.

An economic downturn in 1998 forced this president to resign & vice president Habibie succeeded him	Suharto.

This Thelonious Monk composition provided the title for a 1986 jazz film starring Dexter Gordon	'Round Midnight.

Light energy can be studied as these massless quantum units	photons.

Common name of the reptile Chelydra serpentina	snapping turtle.

AP's chief Mideast correspondent, he got a firsthand look as a Beirut hostage for nearly 7 years	Terry Anderson.

Quote an authority, or catch a glimpse of something	cite/sight.

A Civil War general, he was the last man to go directly from the House of Representatives to the presidency	James A.

Garfield.

This 1963 film features Ann-Margret's unforgettable rendition of the following  "I'll miss the way you smile / As though it's just for me / And each and every night / I'll write you faithfully..."	Bye Bye Birdie.

2-word term for the job that takes you to homes to figure out how much people owe the power company	a meter reader.

In Park County, 30 miles northwest of Pike's Peak	Colorado.

In "Johnny Strikes Up", a violin performance at the North Pole inspires the whole world to do this 1920s dance	the Charleston.

Group name for all letters other than A, E, I, O & U	consonants.

A female nickname, or a fall guy	a patsy.

On May 29, 1963 Ann-Margret sang at this famous man's 46th, & last, birthday party	John F.

Kennedy.

This type of plant seen here--controversial in the U.S.--provides about 3/4 of France's power	a nuclear power plant.

In Kent County, 11 miles south of Dover	Delaware.

It was truly a red-letter day when an opera based on this Hawthorne novel premiered in Boston in 1896	The Scarlet Letter.

From the Greek for "sound", these sounds represented by letters might get you "hooked on" them	phonics.

It's the organ seen here	a kidney.

Ann-Margret got her second Oscar nomination for playing Roger Daltrey's mom in this rock film	Tommy.

California's 2001 energy crisis was attributed to a 1996 state law mandating this for the electricity industry	deregulation.

In Yavapai County, 55 miles east-southeast of Prescott	Arizona.

"The Jesters' Supper" was first performed in this city where you'll find Da Vinci's "Last Supper"	Milan.

Some reading rates are gauged by wpm, which stands for this	words per minute.

Collective term for domesticated fowl like turkeys & chickens	poultry.

Ann-Margret is touring in a 2001 revival of this musical about Chicken Ranch--a publicity photo is seen here	The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas.

Founded in 1933, it's America's largest public power company	TVA (the Tennessee Valley Authority).

In Story County, 5 miles northeast of Ames	Iowa.

In an 1893 opera, the Sandman puts this young title duo to sleep & the Dew Fairy wakes them up	Hansel & Gretel.

From the Greek for "bad word", this disorder is marked by difficulty in recognizing written language	dyslexia.

The last stage of a robbery, as in the McQueen-MacGraw movie	a getaway.

The Riviera was the site of Ann-Margret's marriage to him (not the French Riviera, the one in Las Vegas)	Roger Smith.

The name of this device that reduces voltage for home use is also the title of the album heard here  "Satellite of love (hoo hoo) / Satellite of love / Satellite of love..."	a transformer.

In Wexford County, 5 miles north-northwest of Cadillac	Michigan.

In Nicolai's opera "The Merry Wives of Windsor", this fat, funny rogue gets dumped into the river in a laundry basket	Falstaff.

President Carter has been among the many users of this woman's "Reading Dynamics" system	Evelyn Wood.

It's defined as government by many officials & administrators	bureaucracy.

Lines attributed to Twain include "Everybody talks about" this, "but nobody does anything about it"	the weather.

In July 1965 Bob Dylan was booed at the Newport Festival of this, for abandoning that type of music	Folk Music.

He won an Oscar as co-writer of "Good Will Hunting"	Matt Damon.

After Perry met the enemy in the September 1813 battle of this great lake, they were ours	Lake Erie.

In addition to protecting all of us from funny money, it protects the president	the Secret Service.

Rideshare is the program of the wise & benevolent Sony Corporation to help employees get to work this way	carpooling.

"Thunder is good, thunder is impressive; but it is" this "that does the work"	the lightning.

This annual event in Park City, Utah gives out the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award	the Sundance Film Festival.

He's broken many stories in his online "Report"	Matt Drudge.

The Allies won this battle, the last Nazi offensive in the West during WWII	the Battle of the Bulge.

It's the bureau for booze, butts & bazookas	the ATF (Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms).

Legend says in 1652 Dutch Admiral Tromp placed this at his masthead after sweeping the English from the sea	a broom.

In July Deer River, Minnesota remembers its Indian heritage with a festival of the "wild" type of this food	rice.

In "Return To Me", David Duchovny has a heart-to-heart with her	Minnie Driver.

In the Battle of Thermopylae, the Greeks felt the heat of these people under Xerxes I	the Persians.

This service quarantines animals & can stop you from bringing sausages into the country	Customs.

(Well-known film critic Roger Ebert delivers the clue.)  As the Movie Answerman I informed readers that "A Bug's Life" purposely created a "reel" of these comical errors	bloopers.

2001 is the 35th season of Lincoln Center's music festival called "Mostly" him	Mozart.

Like Neve & Denise, he was one of the "Wild Things"	Matt Dillon.

This king of England beat the odds to trounce the French in the 1415 Battle of Agincourt	Henry V.

Willie Nelson's album "Who'll Buy My Memories" was subtitled this agency's "Tapes"	the IRS.

A lateral branch on a main stem	an offshoot.

In an essay, Twain said surely no language is "so slip-shod & systemless" as this one he called "awful"	German.

The festival of this type of boat, seen here, is a major Chinese holiday	a dragon boat.

Her name was Lola, she was a showgirl in "Der Blaue Engel"	Marlene Dietrich.

With 1/3 the troops of his enemy, this American general beat Santa Anna in the 1847 Battle of Buena Vista	(Zachary) Taylor.

When it invites you up to see its etchings, you'll see stamps & dollar bills	the Bureau of Engraving & Printing.

It's the shy marsupial seen here	a bandicoot.

"Land Of Two Rivers" is the anthem of this country whose history goes back thousands of years	Iraq.

In North America, these tiny birds are the main birds that pollinate flowers	hummingbirds.

Last year it was Da Vinci; this fall it's nothing but dots & dashes with the...	the Morse Code.

This peak in the Black Hills is 5,725 feet above sea level, or a little over 95 times the height of Washington's head	Mount Rushmore.

The last 2 Latinos elected mayor of this huge U.S.

city are Cristobal Aguilar (1872) & Antonio Villaraigosa (2005)	Los Angeles.

Zip, nada, el zilcho	nothing.

An athlete who is "swinging for the fences" is playing this sport	baseball.

Nitrogen makes up around 78% of the atmosphere; this gas, only about 20%	oxygen.

Finally, this 1963 Betty Friedan book hits the theaters--and wait 'til you see the car chases	The Feminine Mystique.

Venezuela's highest peak is named for this man; there's a bronze bust of him at the summit	(Simon) Bolivar.

After this 1906 disaster, Mayor Eugene Schmitz authorized the summary execution of looters	the San Francisco earthquake.

A ring for a baby's incisors	teething.

It's the activity you're participating in if you're instructed to "swing your partner, do-si-do"	square dancing.

At last count, this planet in our solar system had 63 known moons	Jupiter.

First she was Pam Ewing on "Dallas"; now her name is the must-see film of the year.

This summer, she is "The..."	Victoria Principal.

This state's 11,031-foot-high Deseret Peak overlooks Rush Valley	Utah.

Actress Melina Mercouri ran unsuccessfully for mayor of this foreign city, a post her Grandpa held for 30 years	Athens.

Giving a portion of one's income, typically 10%, to one's church	tithing.

This rock band sang, "We are the sultans of swing"	Dire Straits.

8 years before "The Origin of Species" was published, this British naturalist wrote a paper on barnacles	Darwin.

This emotional bond to a captor by a hostage due to stress & need for survival is the psychothriller of the summer!	the Stockholm Syndrome.

Canada's highest peak, Mount Logan, lies in the St.

Elias Range in the SW corner of this territory	the Yukon.

In New Orleans' first post-Katrina mayoral election, this man held on to his job	(Ray) Nagin.

Raiment or apparel	clothing.

"Swing Time" was the sixth film to team this pair of legendary dancers	Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers.

At the Earth's surface, this force produces acceleration of about 32 feet per second per second	gravity.

In Australia, water is going down drains backwards (to us).

This fall, Mel Gibson takes on the reason why--this "Effect"	Coriolis.

The name of this volcano in Martinique is from the French for "bald mountain"	Mount Pelee.

At age 31, though looking more like 13, this future presidential candidate was Cleveland's mayor	Dennis Kucinich.

"In olden days a glimpse of stocking was looked on as something shocking", now heaven knows, this	"Anything Goes".

Cool, Daddy-O! The 1939 autobiography by this bandleader was titled "The Kingdom of Swing"	Benny Goodman.

The Pulitzer folks gave "A Delicate Balance" by thIs playwright a 1967 "Woolf" whistle	Albee.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew indicates a bowling scorecard on the monitor.) In bowling, you score a spare by adding 10 to the number of pins knocked down in this	the first ball of the next frame.

Following his victory in the Battle of Friedland in June, he forced the capitulation of the Russian Empire	Napoleon.

The canvasback is a wild North American variety of this bird	a duck.

In his youth, Bach played this instrument in church & later was a virtuoso consulted in their crafting	an organ.

One who gives blood (5)	a donor.

David Mamet won in 1984 for this salesman drama whose title includes 2 4-letter words	Glengarry Glen Ross.

In this sport you score a point for each 42-pound stone closer to the tee than the opponent's nearest stone	curling.

In September he was acquitted of treason against the U.S.	Aaron Burr.

The genus for this American bird is Turdus; ah, to see the first Turdus of spring	a robin.

Bach often paired a prelude with this form in which a theme is stated, repeated & varied with contrapuntal lines	a fugue.

Conversation for 2 people (8)	a dialogue.

In 1928 this playwright had a "Strange Interlude"	O'Neill.

(Jon of the Clue Crew indicates a baseball scorecard on the monitor.) In baseball, a player singled, stole second, went to third on an error by the second baseman, but was gunned down at home by this player	the right fielder.

Later to lead the revolutionary Redshirts, he was born on the Fourth of July	Garibaldi.

One of the 2 U.S.

states with a bird in its official state nickname	(One of) Iowa or Louisiana.

Bach was a composer of great reknown in this musical era that takes its name from "imperfect pearls"	Baroque.

France's patron saint (5)	Denis.

In 1989 her "Heidi Chronicles" was the story of the night; sadly she passed away in 2006	Wasserstein.

Figure skating has scrapped the old system, where this number was perfect, for a new one with triple-digit scores	6.

In August, this Robert Fulton-built steamship left NYC for Albany on the Hudson River	the Clermont.

This long-legged wading bird of the genus Platalea is named for its prominent flatware-like bill	the spoonbill.

A count's insomnia prompted these pieces that were to be played by a 14-year-old harpsichordist	the Goldberg Variations.

Fate or kismet (7)	destiny.

In 1938 this playwright's "Our Town" had some Pulitzer with the voters	(Thornton) Wilder.

(Jon indicates a tennis score on the monitor.) In scoring a tennis set, the number in parentheses means the losing player got just two points in this	the tiebreak.

In July, Jacobitism ended with the death of Henry Benedict, the last claimant of this royal family to the British throne	the Stuarts.

The Rainbow variety of this parakeet relative is seen here	a lorikeet.

From the Latin for "to sing", only 202 of the 295 of these that Bach wrote in Leipzig survive	cantatas.

Horn of Africa country (8)	Djibouti.

This currency of Costa Rica gets its name from the first European to see the nation	the Colon.

Walt Whitman's 52-section "Song Of Myself" is the longest work in this collection first published in 1855	"Leaves of Grass".

Nancy Davis' married name	Reagan.

In August 2000 Lea Thompson sallied forth as Sally Bowles in the Broadway revival of this musical	"Cabaret".

In 1991 Bahrain was one of the good guys in this conflict & the U.S.

sold it Apache helicopters	The Gulf War/Operation Desert Storm.

Jay Leno's show, it sounds like how you address a letter for Sir Galahad	Tonight.

Porky popped out of this type of drum at the end of many a Looney Tune	Bass drum.

In this Steinbeck novel, Lennie has nightmarish visions of his dead aunt Clara & of a gigantic rabbit	"Of Mice and Men".

A small filet of prime beef	Mignon.

In 1992 you could have seen James Gandolfini playing cards with Stanley Kowalski in a revival of this play	"A Streetcar Named Desire".

This country that controlled Bahrain in the 18th century renewed its claim after its 1979 revolution	Iran.

A cylindrical storage container for grain, it sounds like an order to exhale quietly	Silo.

Type of drum seen here, or a dance done to them	Conga.

In this novel, Javert says, "There is a brigand, there is a convict called Jean Valjean, and I have got him!"	"Les Miserables".

It can mean relating to home or a servant who works there	Domestic.

He starred on Broadway in "The Crucible" in 1991, a few years before becoming president (on TV, that is)	Martin Sheen.

The "humped" shape of a Bahraini island gives it the name Hawer, meaning "young" one of these	Camel.

A pitcher who comes in late in the game, it sounds like a feeling trees have in the spring	Relief.

On the web you can find A.

Claude Ferguson's masterful manual on playing these eating utensils	Spoons.

This James M.

Cain novel, which has been filmed "twice", was written under the title "Bar-B-Q"	"The Postman Always Rings Twice".

This kind of "name" is also known as an Internet address	domain.

George Grizzard was on board as Cap'n Andy when this "Ol' Man River" musical rolled into London in 1998	"Showboat".

The Khalifa clan, which has ruled Bahrain for 2 centuries, belongs to this majority branch of Islam	Sunni.

It sounds like the kind of personality most likely to have a heart attack in the capital of Taiwan	Taipei.

Originally bean-containing dried gourds on handles, they were named by the Tupi of South America	Maracas.

This Muriel Spark novel is set at the Marcia Blaine School For Girls in Edinburgh	"The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie".

Harmful or poisonous fumes caused by decaying organic matter	Miasma.

Ethan Hawke appeared in a 1992 production of this Chekhov play with another bird in its name	"The Seagull".

A causeway linking Bahrain & Saudi Arabia is named for this man who became Saudi king in 1982	King Fahd.

A runway material, it sounds like what you do before you feather your Apple computer	Tarmac.

Percussion instrument whose possible changes for a set of five are seen here	Bells.

In the 16th C.

the Earl of Surrey helped bring this 14-line poetic form to England	Sonnet.

University of Washington	Seattle.

With his new $88.5 million contract, this Laker said, "I'm not really a big spender, I can get a lot of Krispy Kremes"	Shaquille O'Neal.

She done Cary right casting him as her co-star in "She Done Him Wrong"	Mae West.

Wollomombi Falls in northern New South Wales is one of this continent's highest waterfalls	Australia.

Its state flower is the goldenrod	Kentucky.

Kansas State University	Manhattan.

Woody Guthrie wrote for this party's paper & joked, "I've been in the red all my life"	Communist party.

In this 1944 film about a pair of murderous aunts, Cary says, "Insanity runs in my family.

It practically gallops"	Arsenic and Old Lace.

This African waterfall is also known as Mosi-Oa-Tunya, or "Smoke That Thunders"	Victoria Falls.

The Nancy Drew books are written under this pseudonym	Carolyn Keene.

Johns Hopkins University	Baltimore.

In 1783 he wrote, "There never was a good war or a bad peace"	Benjamin Franklin.

"High Society" is a musical version of this Cary Grant-Jimmy Stewart-Katharine Hepburn classic	The Philadelphia Story.

One of the most spectacular sites in this national park is Bridalveil Fall, which drops a misty curtain of water 620 feet	Yosemite.

His "Ode To A Nightingale" says, "With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, and purple-stained mouth"	John Keats.

As a boy in 1461, the future King Richard III was made Duke of this	Gloucester.

University of South Carolina	Columbia.

During the Cuban Missile Crisis, this Sec.

of State said, "We're eyeball to eyeball & I think the other fellow just blinked"	Dean Rusk.

Joan Fontaine thinks that hubby Cary Grant is trying to murder her in this Hitchcock film	Suspicion.

The height of Shoshone Falls on this river in Idaho exceeds that of Niagara Falls	Snake River.

Former mortuary science student Jonathan Davis plays bagpipes & sings for this "Freak on a Leash" group	Korn.

In 1702 military hero John Churchill became this "man" as the first Duke of it	Marlborough.

University of Miami	Coral Gables.

This Nixon aide coined the phrase "Twist slowly, slowly in the wind" during a phone call to John Dean	John Ehrlichman.

This 1957 Cary Grant-Deborah Kerr weepie was a major plot device in "Sleepless In Seattle"	An Affair To Remember.

This scenic waterfall on the Brazil-Argentina border actually consists of about 275 individual cataracts	Iguazu Falls.

This is white wine & creme de cassis; substitute champagne for white wine & it becomes "royale"	Kir.

This type of program that began in 1981 was inspired by Green Stamps	Frequent flyer program.

A founders photo includes one representative who couldn't actually vote in Congress - Walter Fauntroy, the first elected delegate from here	Washington, D.C..

This stage musical around since 1973 has Brad & Janet but no "Picture" in the title	The Rocky Horror Show.

I died around 965 B.C.

& my son Solomon succeeded me as King of Israel	David.

A knock to the ulnar nerve at the bend of the elbow, which we call this, causes that weird tingling sensation	the funny bone.

Daniel & Gabriel were the first 2 names of this thermometer inventor	Fahrenheit.

In this 1986 video game, Luigi & his sibling are trying to rescue Princess Toadstool	Super Mario Brothers.

The CBC's fight against this overseas system of segregation included sponsoring a landmark 1986 act	apartheid.

Gonna be a big man someday & name this hit U.K.

musical based on the music of Queen	We Will Rock You.

On Feb.

3, 1930 I presided over the founding of the Vietnamese Communist Party	Ho Chi Minh.

The first cranial nerve, it's responsible for the sense of smell	the olfactory nerve.

(Dan Patrick reads the clue.) When this Charger retired in 1988, he was one of only 3 quarterbacks to have racked up 40,000 passing yards	Dan Fouts.

This person is in charge of repairs & maintenance at an apartment building	superintendent.

The CBC led the push for the establishment of this federal holiday, signed into law by President Reagan in 1983	Martin Luther King Day.

Character who sings "Angry Inch "	Hedwig.

Newspapers I own include the Daily Telegraph of Sydney & the Australian	Rupert Murdoch.

This nerve involved in carpal tunnel syndrome shares its name with a math term for the middle number in a sequence	the median.

This 19th c.

orator went to Dartmouth & argued Dartmouth College v.

Woodward before the Supreme Court	(Daniel) Webster.

12-letter word meaning pertaining to the eerie or occult	supernatural.

The CBC set up a Brain Trust for this kind of "justice" to make sure toxic dumps aren't foisted on minority areas	environmental justice.

"Smokey Joe's Cafe" features "Hound Dog" & other songs written by Jerry Lieber & him	Mike Stoller.

Affer Los Alamos, I was the director of Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study from 1947 to 1966	Oppenheimer.

A slipped disc can cause pain along this largest nerve that runs down the leg	the sciatic nerve.

This former defense department employee gave the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times	Daniel Ellsberg.

In grammar, it's the highest degree of comparison of adjectives & adverbs	superlative.

In 2011 this Georgia congressman, who was beaten on a 1965 civil rights march, received the Medal of Freedom	John Lewis.

In Tom Stoppard's "Rock 'n' Roll", Syd Barrett is a character & the music of this band of his is heard	Pink Floyd.

I may be a trickster god, but I actually helped Thor get his hammer back after Thrym the frost giant stole it	Loki.

The radial nerve, which travels down the arm, controls movement of this large 3-headed muscle	the tricep(s).

American architect Daniel Burnham was the Director of Works at the 1893 World's Fair in this city	Chicago.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew demonstrates the clue with a plastic bottle of water.) Pure water can remain liquid below the freezing point because there are no impurities to form ice crystals around, a phenomenon called this.

Motion causes bubbles, allowing the water to crystallize.	supercooling.

Genesis	Exodus.

Around 1250 this country's King Alfonso III reclaimed the Algarve from the Moors after 500 years of control	Portugal.

Embarrassingly but aptly, this baby doctor's name was synonymous with womb	Uterus.

In November 2008 she opened up Pixie Hollow, located at the edge of Tomorrowland	Tinkerbell.

Chris Rock narrated this show, loosely based on his childhood	Everybody Hates Chris.

The U.S.

golf register says the chances of this have been estimated north of 1 in 20,000	a hole-in-one.

Mark	Luke.

A 1287 storm flooded the land separating the North Sea & the Zuiderzee, turning this village into a major port city	Amsterdam.

Unconquerable & undefeated, he led Rome to victory in the Rugby World Cup championship	Invictus.

"Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy" is a novel by this Brit	le Carr.

This 1965 movie begins with the birth of Jesus	The Greatest Story Ever Told.

Theoretically, a U.S.

casino's ability to make money on Roulette relies on the presence of these 2 green figures	0 and 00.

Numbers	Deuteronomy.

This Yucatan city whose ruins are a UNESCO world heritage site gave way to Mayapan as a Mayan political center	Chichen Itza.

A little known trilinguist, this island-dweller was fluent in Greek & Turkish as well as Latin	Cyprus.

Grant Tinker was known as "the man who saved" this TV network	NBC.

The answer to this title question of 1962: she cares for her crippled sister Blanche	Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?.

Psalms	Proverbs.

Roger Bacon wrote coded instructions for making the explosive mix of saltpeter, sulfur & charcoal called black this	powder.

Quiet, efficient & adept at getting around, this Roman Toyota hybrid made for a great spy	Prius.

2 of the "Rude Mechanicals" from this play are Tom Snout the Tinker & Nick Bottom the Weaver	A Midsummer Night's Dream.

In a WB TV series, Treat Williams followed his dead wife's wish & took the kids to this Colorado town	Everwood.

His 1742 "A Short Treatise on the Game of Whist" was a prelude to writings on other games	(Edmond) Hoyle.

Joshua	Judges.

In 1215 a bloody incident on this city's Ponte Vecchio began a civil war between the Guelphs & Ghibellines	Florence.

This 12-letter guy isn't remembered for much of anything other than getting under people's skin	Subcutaneous.

Sometimes called "Irish Cobs" or "Gypsy Cobs", Irish Tinkers are a type of this animal	horse.

Eddie Rabbitt sang the title song for this 1978 Clint Eastwood movie about a boxer & his simian sidekick	Every Which Way but Loose.

To figure out the chance of a given roll with 2 dice, take the number of ways that total can come up & divide by this	thirty-six.

"The spirit who bideth by himself / in the land of mist and snow / he loved the bird that loved the man / who shot him with his bow"	(Samuel Taylor) Coleridge.

This strongman was killed destroying a Philistine temple & was interred in his father's burying place	Samson.

Members of the DAR are descended from men & women who participated in this event	The Revolutionary War.

Glutamic acid from wheat is used to produce this flavor enhancer	MSG (Monosodium Glutamate).

The G in MGM, he was excluded from the 1924 deal forming that company	Samuel Goldwyn.

There are fountains beyond the outfield at the stadium of this Kansas City baseball team	Kansas City Royals.

To knock down General George S.	Flatten Patton.

Zechariah, father of this forerunner of Christ, lost his voice for doubting God's word	John the Baptist.

This organization abbreviated OA is dedicated to helping those who constantly binge on food	Overeaters Anonymous.

South America's main wheat-growing area is the Pampa in this country	Argentina.

Tim Burton, director of the 1989 smash about this comic book hero, also co-produced the 1992 sequel	Batman.

Ottorino Respighi wrote a symphonic poem about the "Fountains Of" this Italian capital	Rome.

A really big southpaw	Hefty lefty.

Abraham was 100 years old & Sarah was 90 when this child was born to them	Isaac.

Act it out if you wish; it's the organization sung about in the following: [audio clue: "Young man, there's a place you can go, I say young man, when you're short on your dough..."]	Y.M.C.A.

This embryo of the wheat seed is a rich source of vitamin E	Germ.

Albert R.

Broccoli produced 17 James Bond films & this kids' movie also based on an Ian Fleming book	Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.

You'll find the Fountain of the Centaurs on the Missouri capital grounds in this city	Jefferson City.

A humorous Scandinavian dwarf of folklore	Droll troll.

His son Ham was the father of the Canaanites	Noah.

You don't have to be a genius to know its name is Latin for "table", but you do have to be one to belong	Mensa.

Types of wheat are grouped according to these 2 seasons	Winter & spring.

He acted opposite Mary Pickford before starting the Keystone Company to produce comedies	Mack Sennett.

Lorado Taft's Fountain of the Great Lakes is now at this city's Art Institute	Chicago.

A person who teaches you to imitate an owl	Hooter tutor.

When informed that this king & his son Jonathan had been killed, David said, "How are the mighty fallen"	Saul.

The Max Planck Society is one of this country's chief organizations for scientific research	Germany.

Pasta is made from this coarsely-ground grain of durum wheat	Semolina.

Julia Phillips was the first woman producer to win a Best Picture Oscar, for this 1973 con game film	The Sting.

Andrea Del Verrocchio sculpted his bronze "Boy With" this sea creature for a Medici villa	Dolphin.

A pumpkin suffering from ennui	Bored gourd.

Linguists have debunked the common belief that Eskimos have dozens of words for this substance	Snow.

This city's Independence Nat'l Historical Park has been called "The most historic square mile in America"	Philadelphia.

This Arctic bear's feet are webbed & have hairy soles	Polar bear.

This Alberta capital is called the Gateway to the North	Edmonton.

"A Tale of Two Cities" opens as Dr.

Alexander Manette is released after 18 years in this prison	The Bastille.

It's one's partner in crime	Accomplice.

These systems of communication that use the hands can be as rich & complex as spoken tongues	Sign language/signing.

Pompey's Pillar, a rock formation in Montana, was named by Capt.

William Clark for the son of this Indian guide	Sacajawea.

Large feral populations of the "mute" species of this long-necked bird inhabit the Mid-Atlantic coast	Swans.

A ferry & 2 suspension bridges connect Dartmouth, Nova Scotia with this capital	Halifax.

At one point in this 1862 novel, Jean Valjean owns a factory	Les Miserables.

It means to set free, as from slavery	Emancipate.

Sentence diagrams called these may include lines called branches	Trees.

Dating from the early 1700s, the Gonzalez-Alvarez House in this city is the oldest house in Florida	St.

Augustine.

The silver dollar fish resembles this feared fish of the Amazon basin but is strictly herbivorous	Piranha.

Commercial cod fishing, long a mainstay of this Newfoundland capital, declined to almost nothing by 1990	St.

John's.

In "Through The Looking Glass", Humpty Dumpty explains to Alice the meaning of this nonsense poem	Jabberwocky.

Literally meaning "all powerful", it's often used to describe God	Omnipotent.

Considered part of grammar, it's the study of the interrelation of words in a sentence	Syntax.

Carmel Mission in Carmel, Calif.

was the headquarters of this Franciscan priest until his death in 1784	Fr.

Junipero Serra.

A pocket gopher's pockets are fur-lined & located in these	Cheeks.

This Manitoba capital annexed the adjacent community of Saint Boniface in 1972	Winnipeg.

In the final scene of "Rebecca", this stately mansion of Maxim De Winter burns	Manderley.

Lionel Hampton's instrument	Vibraphone.

This famed M.I.T.

scholar has proposed that humans have the inborn ability to learn language	Noam Chomsky.

Sunflower Landing near Clarksdale, Miss.

is believed to be where he found the Mississippi River in 1541	Hernando De Soto.

Scientists divide these toothless whales into 3 groups: right whales, gray whales & rorquals	Baleen whales.

This British Columbia capital was the capital of the colony of Vancouver Island 1848-1866	Victoria.

The title of this 1965 Frank Herbert novel refers to the desert planet of Arrakis	Dune.

From the Latin word for "tear", it describes someone mournful, who cries easily	Lachrymose.

The 1996 Chemistry Prize went to the discoverers of a 60-carbon atom molecule called this	Buckyball.

Contour flying is when a pilot flies low, following the Earth's contours, to avoid this	Radar.

Slim & the others may feed this fund made up of a portion of each pot	Kitty.

An exclamation point was warranted for the "End Of" This! in 1918	World War I.

On their 1997 Popmart tour this Irish band covered the Monkees' "Daydream Believer"	U2.

These insects "chirp" by rubbing their 2 front wings together	Crickets.

This for life in the U.S.

is currently about 76 years	Life expectancy.

No armed forces are allowed in this area between North & South Korea	Demilitarized zone.

According to Hoyle, before Slim deals, the player to his right has to do this with 5 to 47 cards	Cut the deck.

"Shot Dead By Federal Men In Front Of Movie Theatre" read his 1934 front-page obituary	John Dillinger.

He's the singer heard here:  "In dreams, I walk...."	Roy Orbison.

This bloodsucking insect, cimex lectularius, is often found in mattresses; don't let 'em bite	Bedbugs.

The three members of our staff, seen here, are all in this condition	Pregnancy.

A period of guard duty; in the Navy one may be 4 or 8 hours long	Watch.

When Slim gets this hand it reminds him of Bob Saget, Lori Loughlin, & the Olsen Twins	Full house.

"Thousands Trapped In The Subways; Looters And Vandals Hit" were banners when this hit NYC in July 1977	Blackout.

It's the Aerosmith tune that encourages you to "Dream until your dream comes true"	Dream On.

This large hairy spider is named for a wolf spider found near the Italian town of Taranto	Tarantula.

Loitering in a town & not having any visible means of support, you may get picked up for it	Vagrancy.

It's an order for aircraft to get off the ground ASAP or an egg order to the mess hall cook	Scramble.

Slim's numerical term for a bluffer who doesn't have the fifth card to fill out a hand of all the same suit	Four-flusher.

Oct.

2, 1962:  "3,000 Troops Put Down....Rioting And Seize 200 As Negro Attends" this school	University of Mississippi.

"The only trouble" with this Everly Brothers hit is "Gee whiz, I'm dreaming my life away"	All I Have To Do Is Dream.

These small, stinging ants were introduced into the U.S.

at Mobile, Alabama	Fire ants.

Derringer or Butler	Yancy.

Whether general or ready, they're the troops held close by	Reserves.

To do this in stud poker, Slim turns all his cards face down	Fold.

The Times made its own front page in 1971 when the Supreme Court upheld its publication of these documents	The Pentagon Papers.

In 1975 this outlaw released "Dreaming My Dreams" & his wife Jessi Colter released "I'm Not Lisa"	Waylon Jennings.

Also known as a devil's darning needle, it may have as many as 28,000 lenses in its compound eyes	Dragonfly.

Janet Leigh was sorry she found one of these at the Bates Motel	Vacancy.

In 1682 he founded the "City Of Brotherly Love"	William Penn (Philadelphia).

McDuffie, Meriwether, Macon	Georgia.

His wife Lauren Bacall was his leading lady in the 1946 film noir "The Big Sleep"	Humphrey Bogart.

Henry VIII imported an executioner from France just to behead this second wife on May 19, 1536	Anne Boleyn.

Of this deaf composer she wrote, "Sweet sounds, oh beautiful music, do not cease!"	L.V.

Beethoven.

In the classic sitcom he's the patriarch of "The Addams Family"	Gomez.

Nearly 13,000 homes & 100 churches were destroyed in this city's Great Fire of 1666	London.

McClain, McCurtain, Muskogee	Oklahoma.

7 years after "The Wizard Of Oz" Ray Bolger co-starred with her again, in "The Harvey Girls"	Judy Garland.

On May 15, 1996 he announced he would soon become "A private citizen, a Kansan, an American, just a man"	Senator Bob Dole.

Later in life she wrote that, like the lonely tree, this season "sang in me a little while, that in me sings no more"	Summer.

Port Said is this waterway's northern terminus	Suez Canal.

In his 1613 "Letters On Sunspots", he openly supported the Copernican theory	Galileo.

Baca, Bent, Boulder	Colorado.

Meryl Streep & this actress were acclaimed for playing sisters in the 1996 film "Marvin's Room"	Diane Keaton.

Oliver Lewis rode Aristides to victory in the inaugural running of this horse race on May 17, 1875	Kentucky Derby.

Cynically she wrote that this "Is not all; it is not meat nor drink nor slumber nor a roof against the rain"	Love.

One of the large, flat triangular muscles of the shoulder & upper back region	Trapezius.

Cheers to this Benedictine monk who pioneered the making of champagne in 1698	Dom Perignon.

Whitley, Wayne, Wabash	Indiana.

"Ransom" reunited her with her "Lethal Weapon 3" co-star Mel Gibson	Rene Russo.

On May 10, 1941 this deputy to Hitler parachuted from a plane over Scotland with a "peace plan"	Rudolf Hess.

Edna wrote that this "burns at both ends; it will not last the night"	My candle.

This Frenchman painted the self-portrait seen here:	Paul Cezanne.

In 1673 this pair explored the Mississippi River all the way to the mouth of the Arkansas	Marquette & Joliet.

Oswego, Onondaga, Oneida	New York.

Montgomery Clift & Shelley Winters were nominated for Oscars for this 1951 film; Elizabeth Taylor was not	A Place in the Sun.

On May 6, 1984 Jose Napoleon Duarte won this country's presidential election with 54% of the vote	El Salvador.

"We were very tired, we were very merry -- we had gone back and forth all night in" this conveyance	Ferry.

Columbus' first landing on the mainland of the Americas was on the coast of what is now this country	Venezuela.

He claimed that as a Pinkerton detective, he had worked the Fatty Arbuckle & Nicky Arnstein cases	Dashiell Hammett.

His wife Abigail wrote to him in a 1776 letter, "Remember the ladies...

all men would be tyrants if they could"	John Adams.

In the 1990s Marv Levy led this team to 4 straight Super Bowl appearances	the Buffalo Bills.

Legend says if you run unto the ghost of the pirate Blackbeard, he may be hard to recognize, as he's missing this	his head.

Snow, Mother or Canada	a goose.

In 1932 one of these speed limit-less German expressways opened between Cologne & Bonn	an Autobahn.

By its isolated nature, your last original thought might be considered one of these children without parents	an orphan.

In 1792 Robert Thomas founded this almanac that contained useful weather info; the "Old" was added later	The Farmers' Almanac.

In 2004 LSU coach Nick Saban was tapped to be the new head coach for this team	the Miami Dolphins.

A legendary sailor of the Incas shares his name with this raft on which Thor Heyerdahl sailed the Pacific	the Kon-Tiki.

Rock Cornish game hen or Rhode Island Red	a chicken.

Founded in Cologne, this German airline really took off in 1953	Lufthansa.

Being around you has completely killed my sense of this, the tendency to expect the best of life	optimism.

In 1796 he said that the U.S.

should "steer clear of permanent alliances" in foreign policy	George Washington.

Of current head coaches, this reigning Super Bowl champ has the longest consecutive tenure with 1 team	Bill Cowher.

A legend about this "Irish" group is that they are the descendants of shipwrecked sailors of the Spanish Armada	the Black Irish.

Golden or ring-necked	a pheasant.

Taking nearly 600 years to complete, Cologne Cathedral is the largest in this style in Northern Europe	Gothic.

At your place of work, it might behoove us to replace you with one of these Pongo pygmaeus apes of Borneo	an orangutan.

On Dec.

26, 1776 Americans killed Col.

Johann Rall & captured about 1,000 Hessian troops in this battle	the Battle of Trenton.

The Raiders rehired this man in 2006, 17 years after making him the first black head coach in the modern NFL	Art Shell.

Marshall Gold Discovery State Hist.

Park is in this county that shares its name with a legendary city of gold	El Dorado.

Red-shouldered or red-tailed	a hawk.

The Zoo Bridge spans this river that runs through Cologne	the Rhine.

When you try to make a point, you flail around like one of these mollusks with 8 limbs	an octopus.

These 85 essays arguing for adoption of the Constitution appeared between October 27, 1787 & May 28, 1788	the Federalist Papers.

He spent his entire 29-year NFL head coaching career with one team	Tom Landry.

A modern urban legend says the USS Eldridge disappeared in this city's Navy yard in a 1943 "Experiment"	Philadelphia.

The blackcock or the ruffed	a grouse.

Born in Cologne in 1876, he was the first chancellor of West Germany following World War II	Konrad Adenauer.

After a wrong response, we may need to use one of these cathode-ray "scopes" to check for brain activity	an oscilloscope.

The Romanov dynasty was named in honor of Roman Yurievich, whose daughter married this "horrifying" czar	Ivan the Terrible.

Cyril Ritchard hooked a 1955 Tony for playing Captain Hook in this musical	Peter Pan.

In this Tennessee Williams play, Tom Wingfield brings a gentleman caller home to meet his crippled sister Laura	The Glass Menagerie.

We've got Bud & Amstel Light in bottles, or Sam Adams "on" this syncopated style	tap.

Women have this piece of thyroid cartilage, too; it's just smaller than a man's & may be under more fat	an Adam's apple.

4-syllable synonym for "to count", from Latin for "to count"	enumerate.

One bio of this "Great" czar says he carried dental instruments around with him because he loved to pull teeth	Peter the Great.

Bloody Mary was the girl the Tonys loved in 1950, when Juanita Hall won for playing her in this musical	South Pacific.

In "Gone with the Wind", Scarlett O'Hara marries Charles Hamilton & Ashley Wilkes marries her, Charles' sister	Melanie.

If you wash your hair in the sink, you might have to deal with this heavy-shoed dance	clog.

Estrogen & progesterone are hormones produced by these glands	the ovaries.

This word for a type of running is from a word meaning "jump", & it's a talent that long jumpers need to get distance	sprint.

At Oranienbaum, this ruler who certainly loved her thrills had a "sliding hill", an 18th c.

version of a roller coaster	Catherine the Great.

Gertrude Lawrence won in 1952 for playing the title pronoun in this Rodgers & Hammerstein musical	The King and I.

Meg's the oldest of the sisters in this family; Amy, the youngest	the Marches.

It was established as a cyclic form by Vienna's Josef Lanner; you think you can do this dance in here & order us around?	waltz.

A fertilized egg travels to this female body part & implants itself there	the uterus.

You can fluff pillows or do this, also meaning "chubby"	plump.

All 3 of the Romanov czars named Alexander reigned during this century	the 19th century.

In 1953 Thomas Mitchell won for the musical "Hazel Flagg" & this future TV "Hazel" won for "Time of the Cuckoo"	Shirley Booth.

While in a cataleptic trance, Roderick's sister Madeline is buried alive in this Poe story	"The Fall of the House of Usher".

This centuries-old English dance "was up" for the bank robber when the cops arrived	jig.

Location of the zygomatic bones; fashion models may have prominent ones	cheekbones.

Appropriate last name of Captain William of 18th century Virginia, who promoted vigilante justice	Lynch.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from the Peterhof in St.

Petersburg, Russia.)  On August 12, 1904, Russia rejoiced when Empress Alexandra gave birth to this child, her only son, here on the estate at Peterhof	Alexis.

This redhead won 4 Tonys in the '50s, for "Can-Can", "Damn Yankees", "New Girl in Town" & "Redhead"	Gwen Verdon.

Holden Caulfield tells this little sister that he wants to be a "catcher in the rye" to keep kids from falling	Phoebe.

Our team won 55-0--you could call it this 19th century African-American dance	a cakewalk.

When a woman's "water breaks" in labor, the "water" is this fluid	amniotic fluid.

As a verb, this British nationality means to put an end to something abruptly	Scotch.

He's the only person to direct his daughter & his father in Oscar-winning performances	John Huston.

Like its lengthy river, this state's name is Algonquian for "great water"	Mississippi.

In the "Sopranos" first season finale, Jimmy Altieri gets whacked for being one of these rodents	a rat.

No.

7 in "Food Trends": Meat from this animal (kid is the tenderest)	goat.

Its eggs weigh around 3 pounds each: RICH SOT	ostrich.

Dare: Imitate Kikazaru, the monkey who illustrates this phrase that goes with "see no evil" & "speak no evil"	"hear no evil".

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Hermosa Beach, CA.)  It's part of a regulation match played to 21 or 15 points; it's also the word that comes between bump & spike	set.

Laugh all you like but Hiawatha's wife in a poem by Longfellow was named for this Minnesota waterfall	Minnehaha.

Comanche chief Parra-o-coom was described as "a great" this animal "of a man"; it's also what his name means	bear.

No.

2 in "Jerry Stiller's Top 10 Words": This before "gevalt!" (Bonus--No.

3 was "colonoscopy")	Oy.

Mmm...

caviar: SO URGENT	sturgeon.

Truth: This "Common Sense" pamphleteer later turned to inventing, trying to come up with a smokeless candle	Thomas Paine.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Hermosa Beach, CA.)  It's the lethal term for an attack that results in an immediate point or side-out; it can be a gentle dink as well as a dramatic spike	a kill.

Moving right along--this large Alabama city, as well as a river & bay, was named for an Indian tribe in the region	Mobile.

Slang for a woman on the prowl for younger men	a cougar.

No.

7 in "Quotes": This politician, when told that 2/3 of Americans did not support the Iraq War--"So?"	Dick Cheney.

A type of this lays the smallest egg for an avian: BRING HIM MUD	hummingbird.

Dare: Respond with an imitation of this radio therapist whose "Sexually Speaking" program began in 1980	Ruth Westheimer.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from Hermosa Beach, CA.)  If you make this type of spectacular save, it might get ranked high on the web site with the same-sounding name	dig.

Although its name means "place of sandflies", we associate this Pennsylvania borough with groundhogs	Punxsutawney.

On behalf of Western intelligence, Col.

Oleg Penkovsky was one of these inside the USSR	a mole.

No.

1 in "Discoveries": "Snow on" this	Mars.

This bird's eggs are so pretty a color is named for them: IN BRO	robin.

Truth: This fight promoter said "There was a spontaneous combustion of love" at the Trump wedding	Don King.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew reports from Hermosa Beach, CA.)  A floater serve is hit with minimal spin so that it moves unpredictably on the same principle as this pitch in baseball	a knuckleball.

An RV maker based in Iowa shares its name with this large Wisconsin lake	Winnebago.

Denis Leary says of firefighters, "You have to be like" this sea creature.

"You have to keep moving forward"	a shark.

No.

9 in "Green Stories": "Northeastern utilities bid $38.5 million for the right to emit 12.5 tons of" this	carbon dioxide.

Reptile born with an "egg tooth" so it can escape its shelled jail: TAILOR GAL	alligator.

Dare: She was born on Aug.

18, 1587, the first English child born in America	Virginia Dare.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew reports from Hermosa Beach, CA.)  A one-handed block is known by this word, after the way a movie king defended himself against airplanes	a kong.

July 7, 2009: If you're in Australia, the Americas or sailing the Pacific, look for an eclipse of this	the Moon.

1956: The Red Sea is parted	The Ten Commandments.

George: "It's very simple, Martha, this young man is working on a system whereby chromosomes can be altered"	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?.

This street, seen here, was crossed on a 1969 album cover	Abbey Road.

On May 24, 1927 the Las Vegas Review headlined that this man "Spurns Offers.

Back to Air Mail, Says"	(Charles) Lindbergh.

Pertaining to an inflamed swelling of a lymph node, all too common in the 14th century	bubonic.

The schedule is TBD, but if you head way up north in March or Sept., you can probably catch this big light show	Aurora borealis.

1968: (Spoiler alert!) Taylor discovers Lady Liberty poking up through the sand	Planet of the Apes.

Algernon: "You look as if your name was Ernest.

You are the most earnest-looking person I ever saw in my life"	The Importance of Being Earnest.

This sign means there's a legal crossing for those going here	school.

On May 3, 1973 the Chicago Tribune said this local landmark "Becomes the Tallest of the Tall"	the Sears Tower.

A group of nations acting together, like the old Soviet one	bloc.

January 3, 2010: Look out!  The Quadrantids will be coming from Bootes!  Oh...

relax, it's just a shower of these things	meteors.

1998: Bullet trails in the water showcase the horror of the Normandy invasion	Saving Private Ryan.

Nathan: "There is the highest player of them all...

why do you think they call him Sky?  That's how high he bets"	Guys and Dolls.

You might see the sign here on your way to Samut Prakan in this country where elephants are a national symbol	Thailand.

A Sept.

13, 1901 Buffalo News headline read, he "Passed Away...

from Effects of Cowardly Assassin's Bullet"	President McKinley.

Pompous; overblown	bombastic.

If you stay up really, really, late (like till 2061), you'll see this, named for the guy who identified it in 1705	Halley's Comet.

1968: Dave enters the airlock without a space helmet	2001: A Space Odyssey.

Orsino: "O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first, methought she purged the air of pestilence"	Twelfth Night.

Bogie and Bacall are moseying over to protest hearings by the House committee on these in 1947	Un-American Activities.

From the July 22, 1925 Knoxville Journal: This man "Declared Guilty"; "Bryan's Testimony Ordered Stricken"	(John T.) Scopes.

1829 novelist of "Les Chouans"	Balzac.

June 6, 2012: At sunset, watch this planet make a transit across the sun--only the 8th since the invention of the telescope	Venus.

1984: Men ride giant worms & attack the forces of the Emperor	Dune.

Inez: "I prefer to choose my hell; I prefer to look you in the eyes and fight it out face to face"	No Exit.

The crossing sign here is for this South American bird, not the actress who played Carla on "Cheers"	a rhea.

From the Sept.

16, 1961 N.Y.

Times: He "Dies in African Air Crash; Kennedy Going to U.N.

in Succession Crisis"	Dag Hammarskjold.

Branch of the Indo-European family of languages	Baltic.

Once called radium F, this element was named for the homeland of one of its discoverers	polonium.

Garry Wills used a lot more than 272 words writing "Lincoln at" this place, which won him a 1993 Pulitzer	Gettysburg.

A blue star with a white outline	the Dallas Cowboys.

April 8, 1973: A blue period for the art world with his demise	Picasso.

Front-closing style of sweater favored by Mr.

Rogers	a cardigan.

In a Harry Potter novel, Sirius Black is a convicted murderer who escapes from this island prison in the North Sea	Azkaban.

Havana's Real Fabrica de Tabacos Partagas has been turning these out since 1845	cigars.

2007's winner, "The Looming Tower" is subtitled this terrorist group "and the Road to 9/11"	al-Qaeda.

A soldier with a blue 3-cornered hat & red streaks	the New England Patriots.

May 13, 1884: This inventor did not fear the (mechanical) reaper	Cyrus McCormick.

Eddie Bauer & The Gap offer the flared-below-the-knee jeans called this "cut", from what they fit over	boot-cut.

Meaning loathsome, it precedes snowman or, in a movie title, Dr.

Phibes	abominable.

Charlie Bucket might like to visit this type of factory that opened in 1884 in Voiron, France	a chocolate factory.

Neil Sheehan's "A Bright Shining Lie" centers on John Paul Vann & America's involvement in this event	the Vietnam War.

On a tattered red flag, a skull over crossed swords with a football in the middle	the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

December 7, 1975: In "our town" of Hamden, Conn.	Thornton Wilder.

Christian Lacroix popularized the pouf type of this	dress (or skirt).

As a noun, it's a mop used to clean a ship's deck; as a verb, it's what you do with the mop	swab.

In 2004 "Mustang Sally" played on the P.A.

as an 86-year-old factory of this company ended production	Ford.

Herbert P.

Bix won in 2001 with a book on this emperor "and the Making of Modern Japan"	Hirohito.

A white arrowhead with a black outline; inside are 2 letters	the Kansas City Chiefs.

January 14, 1984: After passing through the golden arches	Ray Kroc.

In 2002 John Gotti was buried in a pinstripe suit of this characteristic closing type	double-breasted.

It's an outline of what material will be covered in a college course	a syllabus.

The Edgar Thomson Plant in Braddock, Penn.

filled its first orders for this industrial material in 1875	steel.

William Warner's "Beautiful Swimmers" is an exploration of the Atlantic blue crab & this bay	the Chesapeake.

A fleur-de-lis	the New Orleans Saints.

October 11, 1963: The end of this chanteuse's "vie en rose"	dith Piaf.

You might see celebrities Don or Beth in this style of shirt seen here	a Henley style.

These 1st & 2nd century B.C.

Jewish patriots were active in liberating Judea from Syrian rule	the Maccabees.

Company that ran the Hawk-Eye Works in Rochester, N.Y.	(Eastman) Kodak.

With a flood control system, the Red River no longer flows into this river, just into the Atchafalaya	the Mississippi.

Sinatra as a swinger (What a stretch!): "Come Blow Your _____"	Horn.

This carnivorous marsupial serves as the symbol of the Tasmanian Parks & Wildlife Service	the Tasmanian devil.

The names of the 3 ships that left the Canary Islands on Sept.

6, 1492, heading west	the Nina, the Pinta & the Santa Maria.

To a baseball pitcher: ERA	earned run average.

The perfume Quelques Fleurs, whose name means "some" these, supposedly has the fragrances of 313 of them	flowers.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew points out an area on a map.)  It's North America's largest Pacific Coast island; the major city of the same name is not on it, but separated from it by straits	Vancouver.

Holly Hunter played it: "The _____"	Piano.

Australia has the only all-black species of this bird, Cygnus atratus	a swan.

On Sept.

13, 1953 Marilyn Monroe made her network TV debut on this stingy comedian's program	Jack Benny.

On party invitations: BYOB	bring your own booze.

(Alex delivers the clue from the Sensoji Temple in Tokyo, Japan.) At many Japanese temples like the very impressive Sensoji Temple, clouds of this, used for purification, fill the air	incense.

Washington said a great city would stand where the Cuyahoga met Lake Erie; judge for yourself here	Cleveland.

A baseball drama: "Bang the _____ Slowly"	Drum.

The quokka, a short-tailed species of this kangaroo relative, is found on Rottnest Island & in W.

Australia	a wallaby.

French troops under Napoleon entered this capital on September 14, 1812 & found it in flames	Moscow.

In a Webster's Dictionary entry: imper.	imperative.

You quickly get used to the eggy smell at the Colorado resort called "Hot" this type of "Springs"	Sulfur.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew points out a region on a map.)  This region, whose name means it's at the foot of a mountain, is a plateau between the higher Appalachians and the lower Atlantic Coastal Plain	Piedmont.

A Bergman or Branagh operatic opus: "The Magic _____"	Flute.

The shingleback skink, a type of this, has protruding scales that make it look like a pine cone	a lizard.

September 2006 brought news of a "Unity Deal" between Hamas & this other 5-letter Palestinian group	Fatah.

A type of camera: TLR	twin lens reflex.

Introduced in 1890, this product for little backsides advertises its "clean, classic scent"	baby powder.

Long before it empties into the Bay of Fundy, the Saint John River divides Maine from this province	New Brunswick.

A Capote tale set in the South: "The Grass _____"	Harp.

This manatee relative of the order Sirenia can be found in the coastal waters of North Australia	a dugong.

Oxford University's fall term is named for this -mas, not Christmas; it's a saint's Sept.

29 feast day	Michaelmas.

On a ship: PFD	personal flotation device.

The wood of the Eastern red this tree (actually a juniper) has a distinct aroma familiar from closets	a cedar.

Since 1066, the only British monarch to have 3 children ascend to the British throne	Henry VIII.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from JFK Airport in New York.)  As in "Maria Full of Grace", the drug smugglers known by this animal term often run into trouble at U.S.

airports	a mule.

"In the jingle jangle morning I'll come followin' you"	"Mr.

Tambourine Man".

Rome, Brussels, Lisbon	Brussels.

One might run in the Preakness	a colt.

The distinctive shoebill is also known as the whale-headed one of these baby deliverers	a stork.

A common adverb, it's also the acronym of a 500,000-member feminist group	NOW.

In 1971 Congress told this agency to start protecting visiting heads of state	the Secret Service.

"Come mothers and fathers throughout the land and don't criticize what you can't understand"	"The Times They Are A-Changin'".

Khartoum, Cairo, Kinshasa	Cairo.

This 19th century American artist & sculptor was known as "The Rembrandt of the West"	Remington.

The bulls of these African animals can weigh up to 6 tons	an elephant.

If sending a Valentine to your Guamaninan sweetie, you'll need to know that this is Guam's U.S.

postal abbreviation	GU.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from JFK Airport in New York.)  It's the "I" in ICE, the Homeland Security department that confiscated these drugs & money	Immigration.

"I got a head full of ideas that are drivin' me insane.

It's a shame the way she makes me scrub the floor"	"Maggie's Farm".

Manila, Jakarta, Canberra	Manila.

He's the guitarist who had a Top 40 hit with "Rock & Roll Hoochie Koo"	Rick Derringer.

A nide is a brood of these birds (perhaps the ring-necked ones)	pheasants.

In May 1970 many of these buildings were torched on campuses, including Kent State's on May 2	ROTC.

Before becoming Homeland Security chief, Michael Chertoff's last job in the Bush admin.

was in this Cabinet department	Justice.

"God say, 'You can do what you want Abe, but the next time you see me comin' you better run'"	"Highway 61 Revisited".

Brasilia, Buenos Aires, Bogota, Belmopan	Belmopan.

Famous for its cathedral, this English city was the capital of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex	Winchester.

The Chinese zodiac's 12-year cycle begins & ends with these 2 3-letter animals	rat & pig.

This agreement on world tariffs & trade was signed by 23 countries in Geneva in 1947	GATT.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from a metal detector at JFK Airport in New York.)  A metal detector creates this type of field--if a sort of echo of the field comes back, metal must be present	a magnetic field.

"May you build a ladder to the stars and climb on every rung"	"Forever Young".

Hanoi, Phnom Penh, Rangoon, Vientiane	Hanoi.

Fredric March portrayed this poet in "The Barrets of Wimpole Street"	(Robert) Browning.

Russian circuses often feature these animals, a national symobol, trained in the art of juggling with their feet!	bears.

This British organization hands out its equivalent to the Oscars	BAFTA.

Edna St.

Vincent Millay began a sonnet "Thou art not lovelier than" this flower	a lilac.

This Freehold-born rocker has had many "Glory Days"	Bruce Springsteen.

On Aug.

5, 1994 he was named independent counsel in the Whitewater affair	Kenneth Starr.

"By the time" this work "is over, fate has been trampled underfoot by triumphant music"	the Fifth Symphony.

Around 1908 tea merchant Thomas Sullivan hit upon this innovation that avoids the mess of straining leaves	a teabag.

2-word term for a pointless task performed for no good reason	a fool's errand.

Around 1804, this poet wrote of being lonely until he saw a mess of flowers like those shown	Wordsworth.

His July 20, 1973 death in Hong Kong at age 32 shocked the world	Bruce Lee.

In March 1974, 7 ex-Nixon officials were arrested for conspiracy, including this former Chief of Staff	Haldeman.

"Betrayed in the hope of getting better", Beethoven was "forced to face the prospect of a permanent malady"--this	deafness.

According to one legend, this spiritual leader born in 563 B.C.

was the first to discover tea	Buddha.

9-letter word for something designed to be impervious to human incompetence	foolproof.

One of Robinson Jeffers' most famous poems is about a hurt one of these birds	a hawk.

Dustin Hoffman starred as this controversial entertainer in a 1974 biopic	Lenny Bruce.

A N.Y.

coroner's inquest came to a finding of murder by this man, Vice President of the United States	Aaron Burr.

It's the popular name of the piece heard here	"The Moonlight Sonata".

One of the first U.S.

millionaires, this patriarch of the Astor family traded furs for tea from China	John Jacob (Astor).

This novel begins in Veracruz when a group of travelers embarks on a trip to Europe	Ship of Fools.

Keats called its song "thy plaintive anthem"	a nightingale.

This actor lived up to the title of his TV show in 1987 when he hit the Top 40 chart with "Respect Yourself"	Bruce Willis.

"If anyone wants to (follow) me, go ahead.

They'd be very bored", this politician said in 1987; they did, & they weren't	Gary Hart.

Beethoven's Bagatelle in A Minor for Piano was eventually titled "Fur" her	Elise.

The last Dutch governor of New Netherland, he introduced tea to America around 1647	Peter Stuyvesant.

Found at fool.com, it's the Gardner brothers' online investment guide	The Motley Fool.

A.E.

Housman, "loveliest of trees," this now "is hung with bloom along the bow"	a cherry tree.

He directed Jessica Tandy's Oscar-winning performance in "Driving Miss Daisy"	Bruce Beresford.

In October 1974 ths Arkansas congressman's career got kicked in the Fanne (Fox)	Wilbur Mills.

Symphony Beethoven "composed to celebrate the memory of a great man"	Eroica.

Dating from 1662, the English use of tea is attributed to Catherine of Braganza, wife of this "Restored" king	Charles II.

Senior citizens might object to this proverb popularized by John Lyly in the play "Mother Bombie"	There's no fool like an old fool.

The team names of these 2 expansion clubs start with the same 3 letters; one might catch the other	the Seattle Mariners & the Florida Marlins.

Each year the EU selects capitals of culture; one of the 2010 cities was this Turkish "meeting place of cultures"	Istanbul.

"Rocky II", "III" & "IV"	Sylvester Stallone.

Sprechen Sie Plattdeutsch? If you do, you speak the Low variety of this language	German.

Before this hotel mogul's elbow broke through it, a Picasso he owned was worth $139 million; after, $85 million	Steve Wynn.

On December 8, 2008 this national newspaper raised its newsstand price by 25 cents to $1	USA Today.

Proverbially, it's "where the heart is"	home.

The Schengen Agreement removes any controls at these between most EU neighbors	national borders.

"Million Dollar Baby" & "Unforgiven"	Clint Eastwood.

Dialects of this language include Wu, Yue & Hakka	Chinese.

It was 103 degrees in July 2010 & Con Ed's command center in this N.Y.

borough showed 12,963 megawatts consumed at 1 time	Manhattan.

The USPS cost for mailing this, a minimum of 3 1/2 x 5 inches, is 28 cents; wish you were here!	a postcard.

A loose-fitting dress hanging straight from the shoulders to below the waist	a shift.

A controversial EU subsidy program is called CAP, short for "common" this "policy"	agricultural.

"The Pledge" & "Into the Wild"	Sean Penn.

Vedic, dating back at least 4,000 years, is the earliest dialect of this classical language of India	Sanskrit.

Senator Obama attended the 2006 groundbreaking for this man's memorial, 1/2 mile from Lincoln's	Martin Luther King.

In 2002 Eminem signed this rapper to a 7-figure deal, obviously worth a lot more than his name implies	50 Cent.

Football position that can be split or tight	End.

Elected every 5 years, it has 736 members from 7 parties	Parliament.

"The Great Debaters"	Denzel Washington.

While Maltese borrows many words from Italian, it developed from a dialect of this Semitic language	Arabic.

Gambler Charles Wells is believed to have inspired the song "The Man Who" did this "At Monte Carlo"	"Broke The Bank".

99 cents got me a 4-pack of Ytterlig coasters from this Swedish chain	IKEA.

It's an abbreviation for Grand Prix auto racing	F1.

As of 2010, Croatia & Macedonia are candidates but this is the only former Yugoslav republic in the EU	Slovenia.

"A Bronx Tale"	Robert De Niro.

Aeolic, spoken in ancient times, was a dialect of this	Ancient Greek.

Nearly 10 million YouTubers saw Dave Carroll's clip called this "friendly skies" airline "Breaks Guitars"	United Airlines.

A 15-ounce V05 Moisture Milks conditioner from this manufacturer averages a buck online	Alberto.

An additional section placed within the folds of a newspaper	an insert.

In 2010 this former First Lady published the memoir "Spoken from the Heart"	Laura Bush.

In English law, it's a title above a gentleman & below a knight; in the U.S., it's usually added to the name of an attorney	esquire.

This plain-weave, sheer fabric made with tightly twisted yarn is also used to describe a pie or cake	chiffon.

Cape Hatteras is known as this cemetery synonym "of the Atlantic"	a graveyard.

Itchy (the mouse) & Scratchy (the cat) starred in "Skinless in Seattle" on a show within this Fox show	The Simpsons.

Familiarity is said to breed this, from the Latin for "despise"	contempt.

This book by Michael Lewis subtitled "Evolution of a Game" focused on left tackle prodigy Michael Oher	The Blind Side.

One definition of this is entering a private place with the intent of listening secretly to private conversations	eavesdropping.

A bit longer than a cocktail dress, one hemmed to end at the shins is this beverage "length"	tea.

Appropriately enough, this New York metropolis is "Bison City"	Buffalo.

In 1939's cartoon "The Pointer", this guy got a new, more pear-shaped body & pupils were added to his eyes	Mickey (Mouse).

Even a broken one of these on your wall is right twice a day	clock.

The New Yorker's 1959 review of this said in its brevity & clarity it is "unlike most such manuals, a book as well as a tool"	The Elements of Style.

This person is appointed by a testator to carry out the directions & requests in his will	executor.

Also the name of a rope for leading cattle, this women's backless top has a strap that loops around the neck	halter.

This town is known as "Sin City" & its downtown is "Glitter Gulch"	Las Vegas.

This 1959 Daniel Keyes novella about Charlie Gordon & a smarter-than-average lab mouse won a Hugo award	Flowers for Algernon.

If you're one of these capable fellows, you're unfortunately "master of none"	a jack of all trades.

Dave Eggers not-so-modestly titled his memoir "A Heartbreaking Work of" this	Staggering Genius.

This 2-word phrase means the power to take private property for public use; it's ok, as long as there is just compensation	eminent domain.

If you're wearing Wellingtons at Wimbledon, you're wearing these	rainboots (or galoshes).

It's known as both "The Steel City" & "The Iron City"	Pittsburgh.

The samplefest "The Grey Album" & the band Gnarls Barkley are 2 projects of Brian Burton, aka this	Danger Mouse.

A camel is a horse designed by this	a committee.

HBO's miniseries "John Adams" was based on this author's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography	David McCullough.

This clause in a union contract says that wages will rise or fall depending on a standard such as cost of living	escalator.

Throw on an outfit from the "Marc by" this designer line	Marc Jacobs.

"The Coyote State" is an unofficial nickname of this 75,885-square-mile state	South Dakota.

Maurice LaMarche found his inner Orson Welles to voice this rodent whose simple goal was to take over the world	the Brain.

It's a poor workman who blames these	tools.

William Wilkinson's "An Account of the Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia" inspired this author's most famous novel	Bram Stoker.

During the Civil War, this river was called the "Backbone of the Confederacy"; it was guarded by several forts	the Mississippi.

The Who performed this work at the Metropolitan Opera House in Lincoln Center in 1970	Tommy.

Bow wow & Coney Island both refer to this food	a hot dog.

This man's been on the job 30 years	William Rehnquist.

Selling more than 25 million copies, this WWII diary of a young girl is the bestselling diary in history	The Diary of Anne Frank.

This small racing sled has the distinction of being the National Spelling Bee's shortest winning word	L-U-G-E.

This "calm" lake village in New York State is often called "America's Switzerland"	Lake Placid.

Dvorak's "New World Symphony" debuted in this venue in 1893: the Beatles played there in 1964	Carnegie Hall.

The name of this state is slang for maple syrup	Vermont.

He doffed his military togs for his political aspirations	(General) Wesley Clark.

Working with more than 4.5 million donors, this American org.

is the world's largest blood provider	the Red Cross.

Now that you've got the hang of it, 1932's word was this, like the group that sang "My Sharona"	K-N-A-C-K.

Maryland is "the Old Line State"; this is "the Old Dominion"	Virginia.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from a street corner in the Bronx, New York.)  The Belmonts, named for the Belmont area of the Bronx, sang in this style, the street version of a cappella	doo wop.

This beverage is Adam's ale	water.

The 2003 war in Iraq strained relations between this man's government and the United States	Jacques Chirac.

With 2,685, Bralanda, Sweden was the site of the largest gathering of these holiday personalities	Santa Claus.

Put the bite on this word from 1975, any one of the front cutting teeth	I-N-C-I-S-O-R.

Rapid City's nickname, "Gateway City to the Hills", refers specifically to these hills	the Black Hills.

She co-wrote "The Loco-Motion" in the Brill Building on Broadway	Carole King.

A houseboat is this ice cream & fruit dessert	a banana split.

This man was elected to his important post in 1997	Kofi Annan.

With an average of 80.5 years, this Asian country leads the world in life expectancy	Japan.

1970's winning word was this French crescent-shaped roll	C-R-O-I-S-S-A-N-T.

The "Niagara of the South", this waterfall near Corbin, Kentucky shares its name with a famous "gap"	Cumberland (Falls).

This East Village venue was run by Bill Graham for only 3 years, from 1968 to 1971	the Fillmore East.

(Hi, I'm Joe Theismann.)  My column for espn.com is called this, slang for a serving of coffee	Cup O' Joe.

This political pundit & independent candidate for California governor is seen here	Arianna Huffington.

With a 212-foot wingspan, this jet from Boeing is the world's largest passenger aircraft in service	the 747.

A suicide pilot during WWII, it was 1993's winning word	K-A-M-I-K-A-Z-E.

Macduff tells us, "Not in the legions of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd in evils to top" this man	the Macbeth.

1952: Marshal Will Kane	Gary Cooper.

In August 1934 this president was made an honorary member of the Blackfoot tribe & given the name "Lone Chief"	FDR.

Basketball superstar Magic Johnson played his college ball at this university in East Lansing	Michigan State.

His "Potato Eaters" was inspired by the time he spent as a missionary in the coal-mining region of Belgium in his mid-20s	Van Gogh.

It's the part of the military that traditionally fights on foot	infantry.

Richard III says, "How sweet a thing it is to wear" one & Henry IV says, "Uneasy lies the head that wears" one	a crown.

1951: Boat captain Charlie Allnut	Bogart.

He had 2 adopted sons, One Bull & White Bull	Sitting Bull.

Once known as the Antelopes & the Bugeaters, this university's sports teams are now known as the Cornhuskers	the University of Nebraska.

Dr.

Tulp was so pleased with this artist's painting of his "Anatomy Lesson" that it hung in his school of surgery	Rembrandt.

B or D, as opposed to A or O	a consonant.

Laertes' first line in this play is "Dread my lord, your leave and favour to return to France"	Hamlet.

1945: Mildred Pierce	Joan Crawford.

Major subgroups of this tribe of the American Southwest include Kiowa, Chiricahua & Mescalero	the Apache.

Rhode Island's only Ivy League school is this institution	Brown.

She called her New Mexico home, where she spent the last half century of her life, Ghost Ranch	Georgia O'Keeffe.

Unyielding in your opinion that the singer of "Goody Two Shoes" is the greatest singer ever	adamant.

In different plays, it's the name shared by men linked with Helen of Troy & with Juliet	Paris.

1933: Henry VIII	Charles Laughton.

This Florida tribe lived in dwellings called chickees that had raised floors & open sides allowing the air to circulate	the Seminoles.

College Station is the home of this oldest public university in Texas	Texas A&M.

His first major mural was painted at the Univ.

of Mexico's Nat'l Preparatory School in the 1920s	(Diego) Rivera.

From the Latin for "delight", this is someone who takes delight in dabbling in the arts	dilettante.

It's the play in which Thaliard says, "So, this is Tyre, and this the court"	Pericles, Prince of Tyre.

1942: Kay Miniver	Greer Garson.

Gov.

Bradford said that this Indian who taught the Pilgrims how to plant corn was an "instrument sent of God"	Squanto.

New Haven has Albertus Magnus; Grand Rapids, Michigan has a school named for this other 13th c.

theologian	St.

Thomas Acquinas.

Last name of Flemish brothers Jan & Hubert, who both are credited with painting portions of the "Ghent Altarpiece"	Van Eyck.

The Huguenots received religious freedom from the 1598 edict of this city	Nantes.

He wrote in his diary, "The loss of pony transport in March 1911 obliged me to start later than I had intended"	Robert Falcon Scott.

Space Mountain & Star Tours are among its attractions	(Disneyland's) Tomorrowland.

This title dog's real first name is Scoobert	Scooby-Doo.

George Lucas is planning a 3-part prequel to this 1977 film	Star Wars.

Pre-"Peanuts", he sold some of his cartoons to the Saturday Evening Post	Charles Schulz.

Members observe Saturday Sabbath because of Genesis 2:3, which says God did this on the seventh day	He rested.

In 1960 the Shirelles asked this musical question	Will you still love me tomorrow?.

Mush Mouth & Dumb Donald were some of the Cosby kids on the show whose title featured this one	Fat Albert.

He played Cameron Poe, an almost-paroled convict thwarting an escape attempt in "Con Air"	Nicolas Cage.

In the March 17, 1956 issue, Gary Cooper said, "In Westerns you were permitted to kiss" this "but never your girl"	your horse.

Like Jews, many Adventists follow Leviticus 11:7 in abstaining from this meat	pork.

In the novel "Gone with the Wind", it follows "I'll think of some way to get him back"	Tomorrow is another day.

"The Immature Radioactive Samurai Slugs" on "Tiny Toons" were a parody of this cartoon group	the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

In the same film, Mike Myers played Dr.

Evil & this international man of mystery, baby	Austin Powers.

Born in NYC in 1894, he painted 317 covers for the Post over 47 years	Norman Rockwell.

The church funds worldwide good works by this contribution of 10% of members' incomes	a tithe.

Annie told us you could "bet your bottom dollar that" this would happen	the sun will come out tomorrow.

In 1985 an animated version of this Soleil Moon Frye sitcom character made the scene	Punky Brewster.

In serials from the '30s & '40s, Charles Middleton played this evil emperor seen here:  "The expedition must be destroyed, with two exceptions: Zarkov and Flash Gordon.

As a prisoner, Zarkov will be of great use to me in my conquest of the universe."	Ming the Merciless.

The Post's history goes back to The Pennsylvania Gazette founded by this man	Benjamin Franklin.

Beer lovers head for the beer halls of this Bavarian city, the birthplace of Oktoberfest	Munich.

Heard here, he left rock 'n' roll in 1957 to be ordained a Seventh-Day Adventist minister:  "Womp-bomp-a-loom-op-a-womp-bomp-bomp!  Tutti frutti, all rooty!  Tutti frutti, all rooty!"	Little Richard.

This advice on procrastination is credited to a 1749 letter written by Lord Chesterfield to his son	never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.

This ape was the white elephant that pet store owner Mr.

Peebles couldn't get rid of	Magilla Gorilla.

This sailor hero's adventures include "The Golden Voyage" & "The Eye of the Tiger"	Sinbad.

The 6 Earl Derr Biggers novels about this Chinese-American detective were first serialized in the Post	Charlie Chan.

Guacara Taina in this capital of the Dominican Republic may be the world's only disco-in-a-cave	Santo Domingo.

This group named for a king of Israel split from the church in 1934, a "branch" of it became notorious in 1993	the Davidians.

The area of physics divided into statics & dynamics or the guys replacing your head gasket	mechanics.

Opened in 1869, part of it follows the route of a canal dug 12 centuries earlier	the Suez Canal.

Hamburgers	residents of Hamburg.

This Kansan made her last known take-off from New Guinea; if you find out where she is, let us know	Amelia Earhart.

This name for a railroad terminal at Park & 42nd is a synonym for frenzied activity	Grand Central Station.

Term for one end of a bar magnet, or for one of the discoverers of radium	a pole.

One of the 3 large empires of 19th century Eastern Europe was this "Sick Man"	the Ottoman Empire.

In this 1981 Burt Reynolds film, the first race car to reach California won	The Cannonball Run.

Palermitans	Palermo residents.

The Republicans had been around less than 30 years when they were dubbed this	the Grand Old Party.

By definition, liquids & gases do this under stress, solids don't	they flow.

In 1880 this Lincoln county sheriff captured Billy the Kid	Pat Garrett.

Family that's California bound in the clip seen here:  "Think it'll hold?"	the Joad Family.

Madrilenos	residents of Madrid.

He's the most famous man we know from Russell, Kansas	Bob Dole.

Term for an extended visit to Europe, once an essential part of a British gent's upbringing	the Grand Tour.

In the 19th C.

Rudolf Clausius coined this word for measuring increasing disorder in a system	entropy.

On sale May 1, 1840, the first postage stamp with adhesive on the back had this person on the front	Queen Victoria.

In this 1995 film, Whoopi, Mary-Louise & Drew head to San Diego	Boys on the Side.

Damascenes	Damascus residents.

This Wild West town might still be wild if native son Dennis Hopper still lived there	Dodge City.

A 1085-mile waterway in China & a 2.5 mile waterway in Venice are both called this	the Grand Canal.

Silicon is a semiconducting material; this is the term for nonconductors like plastics	an insulator.

1853 purchase that brought the contiguous U.S.

about up to its present area	the Gadsden Purchase.

In "Calendar Girl" Jason Priestley heads to L.A.

to meet this movie star	Marilyn Monroe.

Varsovians	residents of Warsaw.

This author of the "Guys & Dolls" stories really was from Manhattan--Manhattan, Kansas, that is	Damon Runyon.

At 15 in 1991, Judit Polgar became the youngest person & one of the few women to attain this rank	a grandmaster (in chess).

In the 19th c., selling stock you didn't yet own, hoping it would fall, was called selling this animal's skin	a bear.

As a youth, this "Iceman Cometh" dramatist prospected for gold in Honduras	Eugene O'Neill.

In 1986 this company introduced its Dockers line of men's casual wear	Levi's.

Mary Bono won election to Congress over Ralph Waite, John-Boy's dad on this show	The Waltons.

Add 2 letters to Niger to get the name of this country just south of it	Nigeria.

He appeared fleet-ingly in "Sailor Beware" with Martin & Lewis before "East of Eden" made him a star	James Dean.

Taste	State.

In a Chekhov play, Mme.

Ranevsky is the owner of this title area of land	"The Cherry Orchard".

It's "The Quicker Picker Upper"	Bounty.

Film mogul Jack Warner supposedly said, "No.

Jimmy Stewart for president." this man "for best friend"	Ronald Reagan.

In a song title, this country whose capital is Nairobi might come before "Feel the Love Tonight"	Kenya.

Before playing Cliff on "Cheers", John Ratzenberger appeared as Major Derlin in this second "Star Wars" film	The Empire Strikes Back.

Send fee	Defense.

In 1941 her "Watch on the Rhine" was named best American play by the New York Drama Critics' Circle	Lillian Hellman.

Elsie the Cow's "husband", his face is plastered on glue bottles	Elmer.

She's played Queen Elizabeth I, but decided to join the House of Commons:	Glenda Jackson.

In a song title, this country whose capital is Accra might come before "Fly Now"	Ghana.

Kevin Spacey played a sleazy businessman in this Melanie Griffith film about an ambitious secretary	Working Girl.

Tire iron	Interior.

In 1991 Nigel Hawthorne won a Tony for his role as this author in William Nicholson's play "Shadowlands"	C.S.

Lewis.

Its "Extra Dry" was the first aerosol antiperspirant in the U.S.	Arrid.

Artists like Gladys Knight have recorded the songs of this senior senator from Utah	Orrin Hatch.

(Hi, I'm NBA All-Star Dikembe Mutombo)  One of the many languages I speak is this official one of my birthplace, Congo	French.

Mr.

C on "Happy Days", he played the man Natalie Wood's parents want her to marry in "Love with the Proper Stranger"	Tom Bosley.

Idea count	Education.

The search for the philosopher's stone is the subject of Ben Jonson's play about this title profession	"The Alchemist".

This sleek swimsuit brand got its start in Australia in 1928	Speedo.

Actress & Congresswoman Helen Gahagan took this last name when she wed Oscar-winning actor Melvyn	Douglas.

Milton Obote, no bargain either, ran this country before & after Idi Amin	Uganda.

Mike Farrell of "Providence" can be seen in the hotel in this 1967 Dustin Hoffman classic	The Graduate.

To trap on trains	Transportation.

His "Anatomy Lesson of Dr.

Tulp" featured the doctor, his colleagues & a cadaver	Rembrandt.

This nickname of the World War II U.S.

Air Force fighter numbered the P-51 comes from the Spanish for "stray animal"	Mustang.

A bright, tasty, yellow variety of apple; it's as yummy as it sounds	Golden delicious.

In new houses, when all your lights go out, you flip the circuit breaker back; in old houses, you change these	Fuses.

Every piece Chopin composed was for or included this instrument	Piano.

"The Puzzle Place", "This Old House", "Frontline"	PBS.

Artist whose masterpiece is seen here: ("Night Cafe")	Vincent Van Gogh.

One-third of the Americans who made up the Abraham Lincoln Battalion were killed during this country's civil war	Spain.

It's the popular breed seen here: (dog)	Golden retriever.

On Oct.

19, 1999 this home & life improvement guru made a bundle after her IPO hit Wall Street	Martha Stewart.

After some miserable months in Vienna, Chopin arrived in this city, another musical mecca, in September 1831	Paris.

"Real World", "House of Style", "FANatic"	MTV.

Because of his style of painting females, this master's name gave us an adjective for plump women	Peter Paul Rubens (rubenesque).

There are Chinese & Russian versions of this rifle that's also known as Kalashnikov Model 1947	AK-47.

While Moses was on Mount Sinai, the Israelites worshipped this	Golden Calf.

It's what andirons are built to hold	Logs/wood in your fireplace.

After meeting this author, Chopin wondered, "Is she really a woman?"	George Sand.

"7 Days", "WWF Smackdown", "Moesha"	UPN.

In 1632 this court painter to England's Charles I & Queen Henrietta Maria was knighted	Anthony van Dyck.

This kind of "force" is a temporary grouping of units to carry out a specific mission	Task force.

This Mongol army overran Eastern Europe in the 13th century	The Golden Horde.

There are 2 types of these safety devices, photoelectric & ionization	Smoke detectors.

Chopin was born in Poland, & his first printed work at age 7 was one of these appropriately named pieces	Polonaise.

"Emergency Vets", "Wild Rescues", "Breed All About It"	Animal Planet.

This 20th century painter known for his neoplastic style helped establish a magazine called "De Stijl"	Piet Mondrian.

This German "operation" to invade the Soviet Union took its name from a crusading Holy Roman Emperor	Operation Barbarossa.

Lucius Apuleius wrote it	"The Golden Ass".

A heriz is a Persian one	Carpet.

Chopin disliked the insincerity of this Hungarian pianist-composer 1 year his junior	Franz Liszt.

"Pros & Cons", "Crime Stories", "DC Insider"	Court TV.

According to USA Today, they're the 2 nonconsecutive months that see the highest cookbook sales	May & December.

Resembling a small lobster, it's Louisiana's state crustacean	crawfish/crayfish.

Before penning "Beast" & "The Deep", he was a speechwriter for LBJ	Peter Benchley.

I can't get none, but with this song the Rolling Stones had their first U.S.

No.

1 hit	"Satisfaction".

On the Beaufort scale, winds range from 0 for calm to 12 to 17 for these powerful storms	hurricanes.

The first American naval victory in the Revolution came under Commodore Esek Hopkins in these islands off Fla.	Bahamas.

A small piano about 5 feet long	baby grand.

Thought to resemble lions associated with Buddha, this Chinese dog breed was protected by royal decree	Pekingese.

The author of a "monstrous" 1818 classic, she later wrote the autobiographical "Lodore" in 1835	Mary Shelley.

The Stones played a cleaned-up version of "Let's Spend The Night Together" on this U.S.

TV variety show in 1967	The Ed Sullivan Show.

In the '90s home fires caused by these nearly doubled, with almost half of them starting in the bedroom	candles.

"The Commodore" is one of the tales of this C.S.

Forester hero	Horatio Hornblower.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew standing in front of a chalkboard)  It's a visual method for comparing numbers	bar graph.

Tuna are members of Scombridae, known commonly as this "holy" family of fishes	mackerels.

Bestsellers from this master of horror include "Koko" & "Ghost Story"	Peter Straub.

It was the number of the Rolling Stones' 1966 "Nervous Breakdown"	19th.

A devastating forest fire swept through Peshtigo, Wisconsin on the very same day in 1871 as this city's "Great" fire	Chicago.

Commodore Isaac Hull commanded this ship to victory over Britain's Guerriere in the War of 1812	U.S.S.

Constitution ("Old Ironsides").

2-word term for large animals hunted for sport	big game.

Extinct before the dinosaurs ever walked, trilobites are key signature creatures of this "old animal" era	Paleozoic.

This American silversmith & patriot was noted for his courier service	Paul Revere.

Footage from a deadly 1969 Stones concert at this speedway was released in 1970 as the documentary "Gimme Shelter"	Altamont.

Oh, "Boy"!  This warming of the Pacific that causes unusual weather patterns occurs about every 2 to 7 years	El Nino.

Negotiated by Matthew Perry, 1854's Treaty of Kanagawa opened up this country to commercial trade with the U.S.	Japan.

Swingin' virtuoso heard here	Benny Goodman.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew at Zoo Atlanta)  There are 3 types of gorilla: mountain & the eastern & western type of these lesser-altitude gorillas	lowland gorillas.

His world travels helped him write "The Great Railway Bazaar", "The Mosquito Coast" & "Riding the Iron Rooster"	Paul Theroux.

The Rolling Stones took their name from a song by this legendary blues musician	Muddy Waters.

Scientists believe the continents were once part of a single land mass called this, from the Greek for "all earth"	Pangaea.

He's the naval hero & commodore famous for his declaration "Our country, right or wrong!"	Stephen Decatur.

A naval force made up of an aircraft carrier & support vessels	battle group.

This Mark Twain character's father "Pap" briefly held him prisoner in a cabin on the Illinois side of the Mississippi	Huckleberry Finn.

65 out of 100 students did the same as or worse than you if your grade is in the 65th of these	percentile.

Maine's only publicly elected executive officer; if he dies the state senate president succeeds him	governor.

Before playing Xena, she co-hosted the travel show "Air New Zealand Holiday"	Lucy Lawless.

Site of a 1977 6.5 earthquake: Bucharest	Romania.

Carolyn Keene's fictional teenage detective who stars in a sitcom set in Cleveland	Nancy Drew Carey.

In this Hemingway WWI novel, ambulance driver Frederic Henry falls in love with British nurse Catherine Barkley	"A Farewell to Arms".

IDEA is the Individuals with these Education Act, formerly the Education For All Handicapped Children Act	Disabilities.

In the Mississippi House of Representatives, this official calls members to order & signs acts	speaker of the house.

In 2000 she became the first Asian-American woman to host "Saturday Night Live"	Lucy Liu.

Co-capitals: La Paz & Sucre	Bolivia.

Otis Redding's No.

1 hit that's performed by a Scottish band on S-a-t-u-r-d-a-y Night	Sitting on the Dock of the Bay City Rollers.

In this Steinbeck novel, a few buddies get drunk & make a shambles of the Western Biological Lab in Monterey	"Cannery Row".

It's the rhyming term for the technique of teaching with only a blackboard to help you	chalk talk/chalk and talk.

In this post, Jim Ryan is Illinois' chief law enforcement & consumer protection official	attorney general.

Lucy Hobbs Taylor must have aced her orals because in 1866 she became the first woman to receive a degree in this	dentistry.

In southern Asia: Dhaka	Bangladesh.

Novel in which Rhett Butler tells Toad, Rat & Mole, "My dear, I don't give a damn"	Gone With the Wind in the Willows.

It's the nickname of William Lonigan, the 15-year-old hero of a 1930s trilogy written by James T.

Farrell	"Studs".

From the Latin for "to heal", it's the type of education that brings deficient students up to standard levels	remedial.

The counties of Iowa & Arizona are headed by boards of these	supervisors.

Lucy Simon, the sister of this pop singer, wrote the music for Broadway's "The Secret Garden"	Carly Simon.

How peachy: Tbilisi	Georgia.

The Beatles' 1967 album that was a 2001 WWII miniseries on HBO	Sgt.

Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band of Brothers.

This captain of the Ghost rescues literary critic Humphrey Van Weyden & poet Maude Brewster from a shipwreck	Wolf Larsen.

These 2 words, denoting socioeconomically challenged, followed "A Nation" in a 1983 report's title	At Risk.

Many states have these for state lawmakers, but in 1995 the Supreme Court ruled them unconstitutional for Congress	term limits.

She was the first wife of a president to be called first lady on a regular basis	"Lemonade Lucy" Hayes.

In west Africa: Luanda	Angola.

Van Gogh's 1889 painting of director George Romero's 1968 zombie film classic	Starry Night of the Living Dead.

His last direct descendant was a granddaughter, Elizabeth Hall, born to John & Susanna Hall in 1608	William Shakespeare.

While attending Lisbon Falls High School in Maine, this horror author published a newspaper, The Village Vomit	Stephen King.

Fantine & her daughter Cosette	Les Misrables.

This type of felt hat that Dick Tracy wore is named for a play by Sardou	a fedora.

December 2 is International Day for the Abolition of this, which didn't disappear in 1865	Slavery.

Cape Catoche, the northeastern tip of this large peninsula, lies a little more than 30 miles north of Cancun	the Yucatan.

To point your mauser	aim.

Robert Louis Stevenson suffered from this lung disease for many years, but died of a cerebral hemorrhage in 1894	tuberculosis.

Miguel de Cervantes & Aldonza	The Man of La Mancha.

1950s fashion favored this canine skirt	a poodle skirt.

March 22 is World this Resource Day; the theme for 1999 was "Everyone Lives Downstream"	Water.

This companion island to Trinidad has its own airport, Crown Point International	Tobago.

What a film reel is stored in; hence something finished is "in" it	the can.

Already a successful poet, in 1814 he started his career as a novelist with a tale of the Highlands	Sir Walter Scott.

Emile de Becque & Ensign Nellie Forbush	South Pacific.

This company's canvas All Star basketball shoe goes all the way back to 1917	Converse.

September 16 is International Day for the Preservation of this atmospheric layer	the Ozone Layer.

A monument dedicated to the men who lost their lives on the USS Maine stands in this capital's Parque del Maine	Havana.

Saturated	wet.

About the "Human Comedy" series, he said, "French society was to be the historian, I was only to be its secretary"	Honor de Balzac.

Aunt Eller Murphy & Laurey Williams	Oklahoma!.

This French-named garment looks like a skirt but is actually pants	culottes.

Can't wait for Oct.

20, World Day for this science of collecting & arranging numerical facts & data	statistics.

This Venezuelan waterfall was named for an American bush pilot who discovered it in 1935	Angel Falls.

To impose a levy	to tax.

His "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman" spans 100 years from the Civil War to the civil rights movement	Ernest J.

Gaines.

Rolf Gruber & Mother Abbess of Nonnberg Abbey	The Sound of Music.

The French name of these casual summer shoes derives from a tough wiry grass that's used to make rope	espadrilles.

International this Remembrance Day, January 27, commemorates the 1945 date on which Auschwitz was liberated	Holocaust.

This southwestern U.S.

desert has a river of the same name, flowing mainly underground to near Soda lake	Mojave.

It's the plant seen here; Don Draper favors one of its products	rye.

Inserting a section of one plant into another so that they grow as one plant	to graft.

In a northern England mining town, a young boy takes up ballet dancing	Billy Elliot.

Secretary of Health & Human Services Kathleen Sebelius	Barack Obama.

Philippe of this family is Chief Ocean Correspondent for Animal Planet	Cousteau.

Hey ___ Law	Jude.

Precedes "-bits" in the name of a sweet Post cereal	alpha.

Rich in nutrients, this bat or bird dropping is good for your garden	guano.

Policeman Ichabod Crane is sent to a small town to investigate a series of decapitations	Sleepy Hollow.

Secretary of the Interior James G.

Watt	Ronald Reagan.

Born in 1911, Louise Bourgeois worked into her 90s on her biomorphic creations in this art form	sculpture.

Maker's ___ Sanchez	Mark.

The ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter	pi.

Open an account at one of these banks that exist for the conservation of seeds, tissues or reproductive cells	a gene bank.

A young cop works with rogue detective Denzel Washington on the narcotics beat in Los Angeles	Training Day.

Secretary of State Cyrus Vance	Jimmy Carter.

Michelin 3-star chef Joel Robuchon opened his first U.S.

restaurant in this city, not New York	Las Vegas.

Prime ___ Racket	Numbers.

A little bit, a really little bit	iota.

This cereal grain embryo is usually separated from the endosperm during milling; health nuts love the "wheat" kind	the germ.

A research chemist appears on a "60 Minutes" expose of the tobacco industry	The Insider.

Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz	Nixon.

He was Jacques Chirac's predecessor as president	Franois Mitterand.

Losing ___ Washington	Isiah.

A homophone of a verb meaning "to paddle"	rho.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew shows some plants on the monitor.)  Most plant shoots have a tendency to grow towards the sun, which is called phototropism; if roots grew that way, they'd shrivel up & die, so they grow into the earth, displaying this other -ism	geotropism.

2 warriors seek the Green Destiny, a stolen ancient sword	Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.

Secretary of Defense George C.

Marshall	Harry Truman.

Luc Montagnier identified the AIDS virus while working at the institute named for this 19th c.

Frenchman	(Louis) Pasteur.

The Heidi ___ of Riddick	Chronicles.

Ancient Romans would've read this one as 11	xi.

Lyrics to an 1868 tune by this man began, "Guten Abend, Gut Nacht, Mit Rosen Bedacht"	Johannes Brahms.

On Pentecost the Apostles amazed people when they "began to speak with other" these	tongues.

1939: "I've a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore"	The Wizard Of Oz.

Originally worn by highlanders in various tartans, these are also worn by women as skirts	kilts.

We're mostly 4,000 feet above sea level & Idi Amin doesn't run us anymore.

Isn't that enough?	Uganda.

They're the 2 things Little Miss Muffet was consuming while sitting on her tuffet	curds & whey.

To practice trickery or fraud in game play	cheat.

Always mentioned last in the list of Jesus' 12 Disciples, he was the treasurer of the group	Judas Iscariot.

1972: "I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse"	The Godfather.

The silhouette of a slightly flared skirt looks like a certain letter, giving it this name	an A-line.

Keflavik & Grindavik call to you, & we'll throw in a 50/50 shot at seeing Bjork somewhere	Iceland.

When used to describe meat, "marbling" means streaks of this	fat.

A spike on the bottom of an athletic shoe	a cleat.

This mother of John The Baptist was well into old age when John was born	Elizabeth.

1976: "You talking to me?"	Taxi Driver.

This loose-fitting garment often worn as a beach coverup was copied from Indonesian native dress	a sarong.

Our Andes are dandy!  Only Brazil has more people in South America, but they don't have our coffee.

Hail...	Colombia.

In 2006 the Chicago City Council banned restaurants in the city from selling this goose liver dish	foie gras.

Bartender's adjective for a cocktail served without water	neat.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows a map on the monitor.)  On his fourth and final missionary journey, Saint Paul sailed from Caesarea to Crete & was then shipwrecked on this island the Bible calls Melita	Malta.

1995: "To infinity, and beyond!"	Toy Story.

On the original "90210":, Donna wore this type of skirt to the prom; she couldn't sit down all night	a hoop skirt.

From Koluszki to Kolno, & Wozniki to Strzelce, visit us, but just know we've heard all the jokes already	Poland.

Thailand's best-known dish, it's stir-fried noodles, egg, bean sprouts, peanuts & seasonings	pad thai.

Moss type used as fuel	peat.

In Luke he is quoted as saying, "I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man"	(Pontius) Pilate.

2007: "I...

drink...

your...

milkshake!  I drink it up!"	There Will Be Blood.

The sunburst-pleated skirt is also called this for the pleats' resemblance to the bellows of a musical instrument	an accordion skirt.

We're one big island! (& several small ones); Lemur entertain you!  (Disclaimer: Lemurs will not, repeat not, speak to you)	Madagascar.

This rum drink hailing from New Orleans' French Quarter has its own glass of the same name	the Hurricane.

The administrative metropolis in a U.S.

county	the seat.

In 1936 he showed up for a Surrealist exhibition dressed in a diving suit	(Salvador) Dali.

On April 20, 1912 the first game at this new venue went 11 innings & ended with a Red Sox win	Fenway Park.

It indicates a website about employment, not about a founder of Apple	.jobs.

Its "day" is 24 hours & 39 minutes	Mars.

One of the other 3 people in the presidential box with Lincoln & Booth at the time of the attack	Mary Todd Lincoln.

Son of Philip II of Macedonia who became the world's largest coral system	Alexander the Great Barrier Reef.

In 2006 "Roots", a 1943 painting by her, sold for $5.6 million, then the record for a Latin American work	Frida Kahlo.

With 44 homers, 121 RBIs & a .326 average, Carl Yastrzemski is the last baseball player to win this	the Triple Crown.

It's the perfect 2 letters for video-heavy sites such as Geekbrief	TV.

It's the third largest in our solar system	Neptune (Uranus also accepted).

In the aftermath this owner of the theater/crime scene was thrown in jail as a possible conspirator	(John T.) Ford.

Period of time named for an alloy of copper & tin & the new water-bearing Zodiacal era	the Bronze Age of Aquarius.

This Belgian's "Mysteries Of The Horizon" shows 3 men in bowler hats; a sliver of moon hangs above each of them	Magritte.

Tim Wakefield has more starts than any pitcher in Red Sox history, mostly due to his success with this low-velocity pitch	the knuckleball.

If disseminating facts, knowledge, the 411, try this 4-letter domain, used by New York State's MTA	info.

It's never observable when the sky is fully dark	Mercury.

Dirty Harry could tell you it's also the caliber of the Derringer used by John Wilkes Booth to shoot Lincoln	0.44.

"Wonder"-ful giant statue of Helios that brings financial aid to study at Oxford	The Colossus of Rhodes Scholarship.

In 1958 he tripled up on his patriotic painting of "Three Flags"	(Jasper) Johns.

In 1918 he extended his streak of scoreless World Series innings pitched to 29.2 & tied for the most HRs in the league	Babe Ruth.

It follows dot in a domain for companies & "That's show" in a familiar phrase	.biz.

It was the first to be discovered with the aid of the telescope	Uranus.

The 3-word Latin phrase yelled out by John Wilkes Booth while making his escape	sic semper tyrannis.

Sophoclean tragedy about the killing of a father & his friend, the actor who portrayed Henry Higgins on film	Oedipus Rex Harrison.

"Sky Blue", "Blue Mountain" & "The Blue Rider" are all paintings by this Russian abstract artist	Kandinsky.

In 2001 this Osaka-born pitcher tossed Boston's first no-hitter since 1965	(Hideo) Nomo.

As of 2010, you can invent your own domain, according to the folks who regulate the Net; they're at www.icann.this	.org (.net accepted).

Leda is its 13th moon	Jupiter.

Attempts on the lives of VP Andrew Johnson & this Secretary of State were also part of the plot	Seward.

Homo erectus archaeological find on Jakarta's island by an expatriate U.S.

photographer	Java Man Ray.

The only time the game wasn't held in Calif.

was 1942, when it was in N.C., amidst fears of another event like this one	Pearl Harbor.

I've said it before: "Family.

Religion.

Friendship.

These are 3 demons you must slay if you wish to succeed in" this	business.

Pontiff's cleansing agents	the Pope's soaps.

The leaf design on Godiva's Autant chocolates is a stylized version of a feather on this "Gone With the Wind" heroine's hat	Scarlett O'Hara.

This dark horse shares stables with Merrylegs & Ginger	Black Beauty.

Of all the varieties of cats big & small, the cheetah is the only one that can't fully retract these	the claws.

The Canary Islands' highest point, 12,000-foot Pico de Teide, is the peak of a dormant one of these	a volcano.

...A 2-seat escape pod at the nuclear plant; this man believes it's for him,...he's wrong; I just like to put my feet up	Smithers.

A Latter-Day jury spokesperson	a Mormon foreman.

Candymakers know that the fat obtained from cocoa beans isn't called cocoa margarine but this	cocoa butter.

In this poem, the hero is instructed to shun the frumious Bandersnatch	Jabberwocky.

It's the full name for the domesticated kitty called a tortie	a tortoiseshell.

On his 3 15th century voyages to the New World, his ships stopped off at the Canary Islands for supplies	Columbus.

For me, this number is naught naught naught, naught naught, naught naught naught 2; curse you, Roosevelt!	social security number.

Society of Friends' parcels of land	Quakers' acres.

A 2007 study said that eating a little dark chocolate daily may reduce this, both systolic & diastolic	blood pressure.

The wedding meal eaten by this odd Edward Lear pair is "mince and slices of quince"	the owl and the pussycat.

It's the tailless cat variety from an island south of Scotland	a manx.

In July 2007 one of these instruments with a 34-foot mirror was completed on the Canary Islands	a telescope.

After a near-un-requested fission surplus, I said Homer "turned a potential Chernobyl into a mere" this Pennsylvania place	Three Mile Island.

Around the time of a veiled Muslim garment for women	circa burka.

Fran's Chocolates of Seattle makes delectable caramels topped with the gray sea type of this	salt.

This title flute player's "queer long coat from heel to head Was half of yellow & half of red"	the Pied Piper of Hamelin.

This shorthaired "brown" cat is named for its color, which is said to resemble that of a Cuban cigar	a havana.

In 1936 the Spanish government demoted this general to Governor of the Canary Islands	Franco.

My mother's sordid affair with this president & later, Chief Justice of the United States, still rankles	Taft.

A large Asian white winter radish that's a representation of a saint	a daikon icon.

Good news: Dark chocolate is rich in these antioxidant compounds whose very name sounds "flavorful"	flavonoids.

These tiny people in a 1952 Mary Norton story live under the floor in a large country house	the borrowers.

This breed of domestic feline from Maine is the first truly American show breed	a Maine coon.

The Canary Islands were named for a large number of these the Romans found there, not yellow songbirds	wild dogs.

In 1917 Allied troops from this North American country stormed up Vimy Ridge in a legendary charge	Canada.

Superman	Clark Kent.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew sits at a Las Vegas blackjack table with Sarah.) To ask the dealer for another card, I can gesture or say this traditional 2-word phrase	hit me.

Let's show her a little R-E-S-P-E-C-T; she's the first woman inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame	Aretha Franklin.

Sept.

4, 2007 was the first time that 2 of these, Henriette & Felix, made landfall on the same day	hurricanes.

In football, it's a charge on the QB by linebackers or defensive backs	a blitz.

In the 1st raid of its kind in history, the British town of Yarmouth was bombed in 1915 by a German one of these	a Zeppelin.

Batman	Bruce Wayne.

In multi-deck blackjack, the cards are usually dealt from one of these--but not the kind you wear	a shoe.

In 2007 Drew Gilpin Faust became the first female president in this university's 371-year history	Harvard.

Mountain passes speed up hot, dry air, giving this U.S.

state its Santa Ana winds	California.

A granular form of this common mineral is used to make sandpaper	quartz.

Enver Pasha, this country's minister of war, commanded the troops defending the Dardanelles	Turkey.

The original Robin, the Boy Wonder	Dick Grayson.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew takes her turn reading the clue.) When you get a pair of 8's, it's recommended you do this, giving yourself a chance at 2 winning hands	splitting.

Registering as K.

Switzer, in 1967 Kathrine Switzer became the first woman to officially enter & run this race	the Boston Marathon.

The forecast is cloudy with a 30% chance of these, characterized by the sudden start & stop of light rainfall	showers.

Many French eateries include this word in their names; it means "at the home of"	chez.

What the Germans called the Siegfried Line, the Allies called this, after a famous German general of the war	the Hindenburg Line.

Wonder Woman	Diana Prince.

When a player & dealer tie, it's called this & no money is won or lost	a push.

Frances Perkins became the first woman cabinet member when FDR put her to work in this post	Secretary of Labor.

High clouds may bring this type of damaging precipitation, especially to the "alley" for it in the Rockies	hail.

It's true! This city, the first colonial post in Mexico, was founded by Hernando Cortes in 1519	Veracruz.

At the 1914 Battle of Tannenberg in East Prussia, this country's army was surrounded & largely destroyed	Russia.

Zorro	Don Diego de la Vega.

(Sarah reads the last clue.) Since my first 2 cards are an ace & 6, I have this type of 17 and will draw at least one more card	soft.

Wilma Mankiller was the first woman to serve as principal chief of this Southeast Native American tribe	the Cherokee.

Longer autumn nights let the ground cool, producing condensation & the "ground" type of this	fog.

Last name of German engineer Karl, who in 1885 developed a 3-wheeled vehicle called the Motorwagen	Benz.

He never won an Oscar, but this 1960s movie star got a patent for a low-slung bucket seat for race cars	Steve McQueen.

Fighting started April 19, 1775 with a battle in Lexington that spread to this nearby town	Concord.

This TV "Funny Face" did a 5-minute workout video in 1990 for people without a lot of time to exercise	Sandy Duncan.

Real estate owned with no claims on it is said to be "free and" this	Clear.

Napoleon said, "I have never loved anyone for love's sake, except, perhaps," her -- "a little"	Josephine.

It's the musical featuring the song heard here: ("I'm Getting Married in the Morning")	"My Fair Lady".

He who does it is lost (9)	Hesitates.

At Bunker Hill, Colonel Prescott is said to have ordered, "Don't one of you fire until you see" these	The whites of their eyes.

In the 1960s he set records of 4 career no-hitters & 382 strikeouts in one year	Sandy Koufax.

In 1947 the U.S.

was given a 99-year one on Philippine military bases -- it was later shortened	Lease.

Samuel Butler rhymed, "Love is a boy by poets styled; then spare the rod and" do this	Spoil the child.

"Side Show" is based on the lives of Daisy & Violet Hilton, a famous pair of these extremely close siblings	Siamese twins.

Sleep like a bear (9)	Hibernate.

During the war this American naval hero & captain of the Ranger raided the coast of England	John Paul Jones.

1978 film in which John Travolta sang "Sandy"	Grease.

It's the term for items, such as bathtubs, that become part of the real estate they're attached to	Fixtures.

According to a familiar song, it's where "me and my true love will never meet again"	On the bonnie, bonnie banks of Loch Lomond.

(Hi, I'm Robert Guillaume)  I sang "The Music of the Night" dozens of times when I starred in the Los Angeles production of this musical	"Phantom of the Opera".

Tall baby sitter (9)	highchair.

The British were aided by Hessian soldiers from the Hesse-Kassel region of this European country	Germany.

The Canning Basin on this continent is also called the Great Sandy Desert	Australia.

In 1981, when Sears bought it, this "banker" had 236 brokerage offices; today it has 10 times that	Coldwell Banker.

Tennyson reasoned, "'Tis better to have" done this "than never to have loved at all"	Loved and lost.

Funny thing...he wrote the music & lyrics for "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum"	Stephen Sondheim.

Jacket for corn (4)	Husk.

This general's 1779 assault on Stony Point, N.Y.

earned him a medal & the nickname "Mad Anthony"	Anthony Wayne.

She won Tonys for her performances in "A Thousand Clowns" & "Any Wednesday"	Sandy Dennis.

This term for the conveyance of property to secure a loan literally means "dead pledge"	Mortgage.

Richard Lovelace wrote, "I could not love thee dear, so much, loved I not" this "more"	Honor.

An Oscar winner for "Amadeus", he made his Broadway musical debut in 1997 in "Triumph of Love"	F.

Murray Abraham.

X x X (7)	Hundred (X=10, x - times).

To Isaiah a land of foreigners, it's home to Nazareth & a namesake sea	Galilee.

She wrote about Jemima Puddle-Duck, Jeremy Fisher & Peter Rabbit	(Beatrix) Potter.

FDR appointed this "hot dog" to the Supreme Court in 1939	Felix Frankfurter.

It's easy to find the Insectarium in this largest Quebec city -- it's shaped like a bug	Montreal.

Despite its title, you won't sleep through this Costa-Gavras thriller about a Greek political murder	Z.

This reptile is known as a croc for short	C-R-O-C-O-D-I-L-E.

Paul spoke on Aeropagus, a hill of this capital city of Attica, Greece	Athens.

This Hugh Lofting title character communicates verbally with normally non-verbal creatures	Doctor Doolittle.

This 20-year-old singer's hits include "Sleep to Dream" & "Criminal"	Fiona Apple.

Whitehorse in this territory is home to the "Frantic Follies", a musical revue celebrating the gold rush days	Yukon.

(Alex: Take a look at the monitor.

Film seen here:)	Jaws.

Often seen at Christmas, this flowering plant was named for Joel R.

Poinsett	P-O-I-N-S-E-T-T-I-A.

David reigned for 7 1/2 years in Hebron, then moved to this city	Jerusalem.

A spider named Charlotte & a farmer's daughter keep the farmer from makin' bacon out of this pig	Wilbur.

The Mets gave fans ice cream on a "sundae" event celebrating this outfielder's 1983 Rookie of the Year award	Darryl Strawberry.

An enormous 30'-high nickel overlooks the town of Sudbury in this second-largest province	Ontario.

Cop Al Pacino chases robber de Niro in this 1995 Michael Mann movie	Heat.

Bra is the common abbreviaion for this item of clothing which is harder to spell	B-R-A-S-S-I-E-R-E.

According to Genesis 11, this famous structure was built on the Plain of Shinar	Tower of Babel.

Aslan is the lion in his "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe"	(C.S.) Lewis.

"King of the Hill"'s guitar-playing comedian Celery Head is a spoof of this red-haired prop comic	Carrot Top.

The elegant Pan Pacific Hotel in this Canadian city was built for Expo 86	Vancouver.

The title of this 1968 film about a brutal boarding school consists of 2 letters & 3 dots	if....

You call it your collarbone, but your doctor calls it this	C-L-A-V-I-C-L-E.

A witch who survived Saul's witch hunt lived in this Canaanite city	Endor.

John Steinbeck traveled across America in a 1962 bestseller, "Travels With" this title poodle	Charley.

In 1983 this singer with the name of a Mexican food hit the top 5 with "Puttin' on the Ritz"	Taco.

The musical "Anne of Green Gables" is staged every summer at this province's Charlottetown festival	Prince Edward Island.

Curran is the last name of this title bigfoot played by Peter Boyle in a 1970 film	Joe.

It's the 12-letter word in the title of the French national anthem	M-A-R-S-E-I-L-L-A-I-S-E.

On Dec.

25, 1991, he ended his farewell speech by saying, "I wish everyone all the best"	Mikhail Gorbachev.

In 1898 Britain leased the New Territories from China, adding to the area of this dependency	Hong Kong.

He played Michael Knight's evil look-alike enemy Garthe on "Knight Rider"	David Hasselhoff.

A type of endive & a type of waffle take their names from this country	Belgium.

The Kodak Hula Show in this city is celebrating its 60th anniversary in 1997	Honolulu.

A popular type of this equipment is coded 7 X 35, meaning they magnify 7 times with a 35mm objective lens	binoculars.

In 1273 Rudolf I became the first from this family to rule the Holy Roman Empire, though he was never crowned	the Hapsburgs.

Name shared by Phoebe's twin (also played by Lisa Kudrow) & George of the Jungle's wife, possibly a twin	Ursula.

This soup is made from the tail of any beef animal, including the cow & the steer	ox-tail soup.

This seat of Kent County, Delaware is named for a city in England's county of Kent	Dover.

The very common house type of this small brown bird is a non-challenging addition to your list	a sparrow.

In January 1943 FDR & Winston Churchill met in this North African city to discuss the war effort	Casablanca.

(Hi, I'm Tia & Tamara Mowry.)  Patty Duke played identical cousins on "The Patty Duke Show" & Sheryl Lee did it on this appropriately named series	Twin Peaks.

To a Thai, they're ba mee; to a Filipino, pancit mami & to a Japanese, ramen	noodles.

Magnolia Mound Plantation, an old Creole home, is a tourist attraction in this city	Baton Rouge.

Since 1900 this group has sponsored the Christmas bird count across North America	the Audubon Society.

In 1701 this pirate was hanged in London for murder & 5 counts of piracy	Captain Kidd.

On this NBC soap, Eileen Davidson as Kristen got look-alike Susan to have a baby for her	Days of Our Lives.

This pizza turnover is from Naples & its name means "trouser leg"	calzone.

The Pueblo Revolt drove the Spanish out of this city in 1680, but they returned in 1692	Santa Fe.

A birdwatcher's bonanza, fallout is the sudden grounding of a population during this process	migration.

This type of sailing vessel has a single mast with fore-and-aft rigging	a sloop.

The first European to round Africa's southern tip, he was also on the voyage that discovered Brazil	Bartolomeo Diaz.

These former "Full House" twins have their own line of home video mystery adventures	Mary-Kate & Ashley Olsen.

Term for whole wheat berries that have been steamed, dried & cracked; they're found in tabbouleh	bulgur.

Appropriately, the capitol building in this capital of the "Silver State" has a silver dome	Carson City.

This artist & ornithologist known for his "Field Guide"s died at age 87 in 1996	Roger Tory Peterson.

One's tax burden can be lowered by exploiting these	loopholes.

We hope the ivory-billed species of this U.S.

& Cuban bird makes a comeback, knock on .....	Woodpecker.

"Listen, my children, and you shall hear of" this	"The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere".

"G.I.

Blues" was set in this European country where Elvis served 2 years in the Army	Germany.

You'll find the John F.

Kennedy School of Government at this Ivy League university, JFK's alma mater	Harvard.

The name of this candy or bite-sized chocolate-covered ice cream is French for "good good"	bonbon.

This country has a launch site in the Negev Desert	Israel.

The Asian species of this animal can weigh 11,000 lbs.

& drinks about 40 gallons of water a day	Elephant.

Robert Frost rhymed, "Nature's first green is" this color, "her hardest hue to hold"	Gold.

Ronald Reagan's eldest child, she played the role of Lorraine in "Kissin' Cousins"	Maureen Reagan.

At the 1997 Rose Bowl, Ohio State handed this school's Sun Devils their only loss of the season	Arizona State.

In the nursery rhyme, it comes between "lavender's blue" & "lavender's green"	Dilly-Dilly.

In 1986 it replaced the Salyut 7 space station	Mir.

The blood of this smallest member of the camel family has adapted to high altitudes	Vicuna.

Robert Burns told this "sweet" river to "Flow gently....among thy green braes"	Afton.

In 1861 the faculty & most of the students of this 2nd-oldest U.S.

college joined the Confederate army	William & Mary.

First name of cellist Ma	Yo-Yo.

This German developed the Saturn V rocket used on most of the Apollo missions	Wernher Von Braun.

Not a "lot" of this cat, felis pardalis, can be spotted in the wild	Ocelot.

This "Don Juan" poet adopted a third given name, Noel, to receive an inheritance from his mother-in-law	Lord Byron.

Rice University's campus is located about 3 miles from the downtown area of this large city	Houston.

(AUDIO DAILY DOUBLE): Group heard here in a 1997 release from "The Saint" soundtrack:	Duran Duran.

In 1919 the Smithsonian published his paper "A Method of Reaching Extreme Altitudes"	Robert Goddard.

A reserve in Cyprus has been established to save the Mediterranean mouflon, a wild type of this	Sheep.

This 1712 poem was based on the true story of a lord cutting a curl from Arabella Fermor's hair	"The Rape of the Lock" (by Alexander Pope).

Mary Stone on "The Donna Reed Show", she was the only female to co-star with Elvis in 3 films	Shelley Fabares.

It's the world's only 4-year university devoted to deaf & hard of hearing undergraduate students	Gallaudet.

It's the capital of American Samoa	Pago Pago.

In 1997, in honor of her 90th birthday, she was made honorary First Lady of Old Saybrook, Connecticut	Katharine Hepburn.

Okay, we've been savin' / His poem, "The Raven" / But to go even deeper / Check out "The Sleeper"	(Edgar Allan) Poe.

"The Immaculate Collection" (1990)	Madonna.

In Esperanto "no man is an" insulo, this	an island.

For eligible vets, the VA offers guaranteed ones of these with competitive rates & little or no down payment	mortgages (home loans).

Joseph Hopkins Twichell, this man's "Tramp Abroad" traveling companion, conducted his funeral service	Mark Twain.

A great fuss about something trivial is "a tempest in" this, like chip's mother	a teapot.

Our New Year's are fine / 'Cause he wrote "Auld Lang Syne" / His pen was hot, man / He's the national poet of Scotland	(Robert) Burns.

"Forty Licks" (2002) & "Hot Rocks: 1964-1971 "	The Rolling Stones.

It began in 1986 as a 20-person Summer Solstice Fest at S.F.'s Baker Beach; in 2008, 49,599 went, but to a different place	Burning Man.

20,000 veterans of this war marched on Washington in 1932 demanding a war bonus that had been promised them	World War I.

The Archbishop of Canterbury who presided over this royal's 2002 service was the ninth in her long life	the Queen Mother.

If we could find him, a soldier who's gone AWOL could tell us that AWOL stands for this	Absent Without Leave.

Blind by 1652 / 22 years of life remained / Still much for him to do / Like pen "Paradise Regained"	Milton.

"Greatest Hits: Straight Up!" (2007)	Paula Abdul.

Don't take "four score & seven years" to tell us it equals this many total years	87.

In 1988 this president created the cabinet-level Department of Veterans Affairs	Ronald Reagan.

In April 2005 Joseph Ratzinger officiated at this man's funeral	John Paul II.

In a song he wrote during WWII Frank Loesser popularized the phrase, "Praise the lord and pass" this	the ammunition.

Remember your classes / His "Bells and Pomegranates" collection / Includes "Pippa Passes"	Robert Browning.

"My Generation: The Very Best of..." (1996)	The Who.

This composer's Nibelungs stopped working Feb.

13, 1883	Wagner.

The U.S.

government expanded veterans' medical benefits following this conflict that ended in 1975	the Vietnam War.

This Arizona senator's sendoff in 1998 was presided over by Rev.

Carlozzi & Rabbi Plotkin	Barry Goldwater.

From "Casey at the Bat", when there's a letdown or disappointment "There is no joy in" this place	Mudville.

A 19th c.

shut-in / We really don't mean to butt in / Her "A Route of Evanescence" / Would've thrilled Donald Pleasence	Emily Dickinson.

"All the Hits: From Surf City to Drag City" (2004)	Jan & Dean.

"Dynam" is a combining form meaning this 5-letter word that can precede drill, broker or brake	power.

The G.I.

bill is officially the SRA, this group's "Readjustment Act"	Servicemen.

Ralph Abernathy conducted his friend Martin Luther King Jr.'s funeral service at this church	Ebenezer Baptist Church.

The future is inevitable, at least according to this phrase translated from the Latin "iacta alea est"	the die is cast.

In the 1910s O'Neill lived in this region of lower Manhattan where many an artist has found his "voice"	Greenwich Village.

He played a trucker whose sidekick was an orangutan named Clyde in "Every Which Way But Loose"	Clint Eastwood.

Set out like Hemingway on a fishing trip due south from Key West & you eventually reach this nation	Cuba.

O3, aka this, can be detected many miles downwind from urban centers & can harm forest vegetation	ozone.

This Mansion is the official residence of the mayor of New York City	Gracie.

Any edible, aromatic vegetable substance added to food for flavor	spice.

O'Neill was furious when this 18-year-old daughter of his married 54-year-old Charlie Chaplin	Oona O'Neill.

This cartoon ape lives at Mr.

Peebles' pet store--he won't stay sold	Magilla Gorilla.

Brush up on your kana & kanji if you head due west out of L.A.

because you'll need them in this nation you reach	Japan.

This term can refer to a decisive "event" or to an area that drains to a common waterway	a watershed.

Tired of camping in tents at his San Simeon ranch, he told architect Julia Morgan "to build a little something"	(William Randolph) Hearst.

A move in baseball that results in an out for you, but advances any runner on base	a sacrifice.

In 1929 O'Neill's play "Strange" this was banned in Boston, so it played in nearby Quincy instead	Strange Interlude.

Rod Serling co-wrote the screenplay for this 1968 classic--you damned dirty ape!	Planet of the Apes.

Head due east from Washington, D.C.

or New York City & you'll first hit this Southern European country	Portugal.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows an animation on the monitor.)  During rainstorms, forest floors can hold as much as five times their weight in water; the trees' roots hold the saturated soil in place, controlling this	erosion.

An official residence of Queen Elizabeth, it's the largest occupied castle in the world	Windsor Castle.

From the Latin for "in my view", it's guidance offered to another	advice.

As a young man O'Neill was fast friends with this reporter & Communist Labor Party co-founder	John Reed.

Alisa Berk played Kala, the primate mother, in this 1984 film subtitled "The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes"	Greystoke.

Attu island in the Aleutians is only 560 miles due east of this Russian peninsula	Kamchatka.

In rain forests epiphytes, AKA air plants, grow both in the understory & in this top forest layer	the canopy.

This chateau just outside of Paris was built in 1623 as a hunting lodge for Louis XIII	Versailles.

To lure or lead on by exciting hope or desire	entice.

This epic O'Neill work is based partly on the "Oresteia" of Aeschylus	Mourning Becomes Electra.

He's the wise shaman baboon in "The Lion King"	Rafiki.

The closest nation to the contiguous U.S.

that it doesn't border is this archipelagic country	the Bahamas.

Most endangered species become that way because of the loss of this, Latin for "it dwells"	habitat.

This 70-room palazzo in Newport, Rhode Island was the Vanderbilts' summer cottage	The Breakers.

Governor of a province who rules as the representative of his sovereign	a viceroy.

On Oct.

14, 1947 in the Mojave Desert the first of these sounds was made by man; it was the byproduct of another first	sonic boom.

"Eat to live, and not" this	live to eat.

Similar to a relief map, a tactual map is designed for use by these people	the blind.

The Diamondbacks broke this Florida team's record as the expansion team to win a World Series fastest	the Marlins.

On Feb.

18, 1999 at Lincoln Center, this orchestra performed its 13,000th concert	the New York Philharmonic.

The region of Brie produced the Briard dog but is most famous for this food product	Brie cheese.

Pass food or drink through the mouth & throat	swallow.

These "fell great oaks"	Little strokes.

Photogrammetry is the science of making maps from photographs taken from these	aircraft.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew stands in the stands at Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix.)  Game 5 of the 2001 World Series was the first Major League game to be played in this month	November.

This city's orchestra began its Pops Concerts in 1885 under the name Promenade	Boston.

De Tocqueville called this event that changed world history "Inevitable yet...

completely unforseen"	the French Revolution.

If "ruffed" up, you might complain or grumble as this bird's name suggests	grouse.

"Remember that" this "is money"	time.

The symbol seen here represents one of these; the Khyber & Donner are 2 of the most famous	passes.

This lengthy lefty became the first pitcher to win games 6 & 7 of a World Series on consecutive days	Randy Johnson.

During WWII Allied bombs destroyed the Philharmonie, home to this German city's Philharmonic	Berlin.

This figure seen here has an inflated sense of his own importance	the Michelin Man.

Mindlessly repeat the words of others	parrot.

In a letter to Josiah Quincy, Franklin wrote that "There never was a good war or" one of these	a bad peace.

Profession of Joshua Fry, who mapped Virginia, & of his subordinate George Washington	surveyor.

This losing manager said philiosophically, "You have to take both sides"	Joe Torre.

This city's Philharmonic, formed in 1842, also plays regularly at the Salsburg festival	Vienna.

Fames Socialist Eugene V.

Debs was named for 2 socially conscious French authors: Eugene Sue & this man	Victor Hugo.

Figuratively, to prod someone into action	goose.

"Three may keep a secret, if two of them are" this	dead.

In mapmaking the Mercator is one example of this, a system of lines on a plane surface	a projection.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew steps up to the plate & takes a swing at Bank One Ballpark.) In Game 7 of the 2001 World Series this player called "Gonzo" stood here & delivered the championship hit	Luis Gonzalez.

Eugene Goossens, first chief conductor of this city's Symphony, helped get the famous Opera House built	Sydney.

This French term for a temporary residence means "foot on the ground"	pied  terre.

Flutter, as in a candle	flicker.

Samoa has 2 official languages: Samoan & this	English.

Guiness played this mythic character in the first 3 "Star Wars" films	Obi-Wan Kenobi.

The 421 B.C.

Peace of Nicias between Athens & the city-state was supposed to last for decades-- didn't work	Sparta.

Tool men:  Samuel & Alonzo	Black & Decker.

A young girl's trial testimony against her rapist inspired his novel "A Time to Kill"	John Grisham.

For  the White House, it's 20500	ZIP code.

(Jeff Probst delivers the clue from Nuku Hiva.)  Born in Paris, this artist lived in Peru as a child & died in the Marquesas Islands in 1903	(Paul) Gauguin.

Guinness played many Shakespearean roles at this theatre aka the Royal Victorian Theatre	Old Vic.

Name given the 85 essays written by Hamilton, Jay & Madison that promoted the ratification of the Constitution	the Federalist Papers.

Car men: Henry-Charles	Rolls-Royce.

In 1955 he got an offer he couldn't refuse: the publication of his first novel, "The Dark Arena"	Mario Puzo.

Kazantzakis' fictional funloving title peasant	Zorba the Greek.

In 1957 remains of the H.M.S.

Bounty were discovered off this tiny island	Pitcairn Island.

It's the 1957 Best Picture winner for which Guinness won his best actor Oscar as Col.

Nicholson	Bridge on the River Kwai.

This Empress' decree annexing the Crimea was issued on April 8, 1783	Catherine the Great.

Toy makers: Herman-Irving	Fisher-Price.

Oui! Oui! in 1863 this science fiction pioneer published his first novel, "Five Weeks in a Balloon"	Jules Verne.

In the 1838 Battle of Blood River, Andres Pretorius led troops against this African people's warriors	the Zulus.

(Jeff Probst delivers the clue.)  This author visited the Typee Valley on Nuku Hiva & his 1846 "Peep at Polynesian Life" is set here	Herman Melville.

In a 1965 romantic epic, Guinness portrayed Yevgraf, the half-brother of this title physician	Doctor Zhivago.

The Tripartite Pact of 1940 allied Germany, Japan & this country	Italy.

Paint guys: Henry-Edward	Sherwin-Williams.

Stephen Crane's first novel told the story of this "Girl of the Streets"	Maggie.

This "Master of the Pan Flute" has sold millions of albums worldwide	Zamfir.

This kingdom's largest annual festival is Heilala, which coincides with the king's birthday on July 4	Tonga.

Guinness received his first Oscar nomination for this 1951 comedy about a "Mob" that robs a bank	The Lavender Hill Mob.

Baron Eduard De Stoeckl for Russia & this man for the U.S.

worked out the 1867 Alaska Purchase Treaty	Seward.

Mapmakers: William-Andrew	Rand-McNally.

He wrote his first novel, "Junkie", under the pen name William Lee; "Naked Lunch" would follow	(William S.) Burroughs.

This domesticated critter seen here has a dewlap & it do lap up lots of water when it gets thirsty	the zebu.

In his job since 1984, this man has been called "the Prince who awakened Sleeping Beauty"	Michael Eisner.

The Sixth Amendment gives you the right to "enjoy" (yep, enjoy) "a speedy and public" one of these	a trial.

In Exodus his wife is identified as Zipporah	Moses.

The Mayo Clinic suggests sitting on an exercise ball--you'll improve this, the way you sit, starting with a straight back	your posture.

With her 1993 marriage to Crown Prince Naruhito, Masako Owada became this country's empress-in-waiting	Japan.

A complete, renovative beauty treatment; mine needed spackle & a trowel	a makeover.

Walter Alston, Sparky Anderson	baseball.

The Seventh Amendment gives you the right to a jury if you're suing for more than this much--2 sawbucks	$20.

He was U.S.

President when the stock market crashed in 1929	Hoover.

Practice the office version of this exercise by sitting down & standing up in rapid succession a few times a day	squats.

After her 1956 wedding, she & her prince drove through the streets of Monte Carlo in an open-top car	Grace Kelly.

3-word term for keeping your finances in order, or joining 2 opposite extremes of a rope	to make ends meet.

Tom Osborne, Marty Schottenheimer	football.

The First Amendment states that "Congress shall make no law...

abridging the freedom of" these 2 things	speech & the press.

Hephaestus was the Greek god of this; Prometheus was chained to a rock for stealing it	fire.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew demonstrates an office exercise.) With water bottles, you can tone these muscles in the front of the upper arms	the biceps.

She became Philip Mountbatten's bride in 1947	Queen Elizabeth II.

This adjective refers to using whatever is available to meet an urgent need	makeshift.

Valery Liukin, Bela Karolyi	gymnastics.

The 3rd Amendment says that in time of peace, one of these can't be quartered in a house without the owner's consent	a soldier.

This U.S.

state is "The Magnolia State", y'all	Mississippi.

On your break, walk laps around the office, tracking your steps on this gadget; 10,000 a day is your goal	a pedometer.

This Powhatan princess wed John Rolfe in 1614	Pocahontas.

It sounds like a farm machine, but it's really a hard punch that renders an opponent unable to continue boxing	a haymaker.

Lute Olson, Lenny Wilkens	basketball.

The 4th Amendment says "No warrants shall issue but upon" this 2-word phrase "supported by oath or affirmation"	probable cause.

This controversial man won an Oscar for directing "On the Waterfront"	(Elia) Kazan.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew demonstrates an office exercise.)  It may not look like much, but pressing down on a desk for several seconds and holding is this type of static exercise, which increases muscle strength	isometric.

Single mom Mette-Marit Tjessem Hoiby wed Crown Prince Haakon in 2001, making her a princess of this country	Norway.

Matthew 5:9 says they shall be called "the children of God"	the peacemakers.

Jacques Lemaire, Scotty Bowman	hockey.

It's the colorful body of water between Korea & Shanghai	the Yellow Sea.

Near the end of this movie, Maverick makes one final "flyby", annoying the "air boss" of USS Kitty Hawk	Top Gun.

When a Twain title loses a letter, young royal Edward Tudor learns the problems of The London Times	The Prince and the Paper.

It's the largest Gothic-style Catholic church in the United States	St.

Patrick's cathedral.

Varieties of this plant grown in American gardens include madonna, Korean aureum & tiger	lilies.

From the Latin for "energy" or "force" comes this word sometimes paired with vim	vigor.

This branch of the Nile used to flood due to seasonal rainfall in Lake Tana	the Blue Nile.

Thanks to Rodney Dangerfield, Judge Smails' boat The Flying Wasp meets an untimely end in this comedy	Caddyshack.

A Faulkner tale about the Compson family loses a letter to focus on animal pelts	The Sound and the Fur.

Despite his big 1775 "Give me liberty or give me death" speech, this man was a wealthy colonial slave owner	Patrick Henry.

Tigers generally avoid man but enjoy the shelter of this tropical tree whose name starts with "man"	a mangrove.

This word for a strong man shares its name with a Georgia-Pacific paper product	brawny.

Guyana shares the Acarai Mountains with this nation, its largest neighbor	Brazil.

This drama adapted from a book concerns the Massachusetts fishing boat the Andrea Gail	The Perfect Storm (A Perfect Storm accepted).

Courageous neologisms abound when a Huxley title drops a letter	Brave New Word.

The New York Knicks retired his No.

33 jersey	Patrick Ewing.

Ochroma pyramidale, this tree, yields a lightweight wood often used to make surfboards	balsa.

Completed 12 labors? You may be described with this adjective, like an ancient hero who did the same	herculean.

What was once called Muslim East Bengal is today known as this	Bangladesh.

In "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End", Davy Jones helms this ship, also the name of a Wagner opera	The Flying Dutchman.

Drop a letter from a George Eliot novel & the Tulliver siblings are unwell on a certain river	The Ill on the Floss.

In 2000 this political commentator was the Reform Party nominee for president	Pat Buchanan.

This hardy gray-leaved shrub is so abundant in Nevada that it gave the state one of its nicknames	sagebrush.

Meaning tough or resilient, this 6-letter word refers to tendons	sinewy.

The Gobi Desert straddles these 2 countries	Mongolia & China.

In "Waterworld" Dennis Hopper helmed this ship once piloted by Joseph Hazelwood	the Exxon Valdez.

Look out!  A Thomas Hardy title loses a letter & you'll want to keep your distance from a frenzied black bird	Far from the Madding Crow.

Author of the swashbuckling naval adventure novel "Master & Commander"	Patrick O'Brian.

This chalky white "infantile" flower used in bouquets is from the genus Gypsophila, which means "lover of chalk"	baby's breath.

Post-Civil War Republicans opposed to civil service reform were called these	Stalwarts.

He is the only president of the United States to be awarded the Purple Heart	John F.

Kennedy.

In early April 1775 William Dawes, Samuel Prescott & this man rode to warn Patriots to move military stores from Concord	Paul Revere.

UC Berkeley's teams are known as the golden these, & there's one on the state flag	a bear (or Bears).

A Louis XVI one of these that showed phases of the moon as well as the seconds & minutes sold in 1999 for $3 million	a clock.

Mexico, United States, Canada	Canada.

She probably wrote about her cheerleading days at Katy High School in Texas in her own diary, not Bridget Jones's	(Rene) Zellweger.

In the 1930s it was advertised as "the handkerchiefs you can throw away"	Kleenex.

3 years after writing the Declaration of Independence, he succeeded Patrick Henry as Virginia governor	(Thomas) Jefferson.

Pepperdine's nickname is this, & some lap not too far away from the campus	Waves.

Some of this early Rock & Roll singer's hair (maybe his sideburns?) sold in 2002 for $115,120	Elvis Presley.

Pakistan, India, Bangladesh	India.

This ex-Eastern Regional High cheerleader must have let out a cheer when she became Regis Philbin's co-host	Kelly Ripa.

Feline term for a pool of money to which many have contributed	the kitty.

On 7/3/76 he wrote to his wife Abigail that the colonies "are, and of right ought to be, free and independent states"	John Adams.

This word describing Penn State's Lions comes from an Algonquian term meaning "single mountain"	Nittany.

In 2001, an anonymous buyer paid more than $6 million for a 1623 "first folio" of this English author's plays	(William) Shakespeare.

Saudi Arabia, Oman, Yemen	Saudi Arabia.

Mandy Moore spent years as a cheerleader before playing one in this "Regal" Anne Hathaway film of 2001	The Princess Diaries.

The "K" is silent in this word meaning complicated, as in a difficult problem; the word also describes ropes & trees	knotty.

In 1724, at the age of 18, he left Philadelphia for England to train as a printer; he stayed there 2 years	(Benjamin) Franklin.

The University of Texas at Arlington uses this nickname shared by the NBA team closest to them	Mavericks.

In 2000 a set of books about these critters "Of America" by John James Audubon sold at auction for $8.8 million	birds.

Spain, Germany, France	France.

These 2 stars of "Desperate Housewives" were high school cheerleaders (Hint: they're both brunettes)	Eva Longoria and Teri Hatcher.

We may put you to sleep telling you its standard dimensions are an impressive 76 x 80 inches	a king-sized bed.

In "Public Good", this pamphleteer called for Virginia to cede land needed to form a strong central government	(Thomas) Paine.

This University of Idaho nickname is from an old Germanic tribe whose name has come to mean troublemakers	Vandals.

The world's most valuable one of these instruments is one made by Antonio Stradivari in 1716 worth $18 million	a violin.

Libya, Egypt, Tunisia	Libya.

Two bits, four bits, six bits, a dollar.

If you know this Phillips Academy cheerleader, stand up and holler!	George W.

Bush.

The colors of Hawaii Pacific University are Columbia blue and this shade of green	kelly.

Around 400 B.C.

the Greek Ctesias described it as having a white body with a straight cubit-long horn	a unicorn.

This 2003 "Lord of the Rings" installment has Frodo & Sam approaching Mount Doom to destroy the one ring	The Return of the King.

Hitting a speed of about 800 miles per hour, Chuck Yeager broke this barrier in October 1947	the speed of sound.

This U.S.

commonwealth lies about 70 miles across the Mona Passage from the Dominican Republic	Puerto Rico.

Don't be embarrassed to use the Cargo Beach or Suede type of this cheek makeup	blush.

Hemi-	half.

The earliest ballads of this outlaw say that his activities took place in the South Yorkshire, not Nottinghamshire	Robin Hood.

James Cameron also won an Oscar for editing this 1997 blockbuster	Titanic.

August 1983 saw the first night launch of this reusable U.S.

orbital vehicle	the space shuttle.

Russia's Wrangel Island & Canada's Prince Patrick Island lie in this ocean	the Arctic (Ocean).

Spanish for "mask", this cosmetic is used to color the eylashes	mascara.

Di- as in dicephalous	two.

This steel drivin' man beat a steam drill in a race to make a railroad tunnel but died with his "hammer in his hand"	(John) Henry.

Jack-Jack Parr is the baby of the family of superheroes in this animated film	The Incredibles.

Taking 16 hours, in 1919 British aviators Alcock & Brown became the first to cross this large body of water nonstop	the Atlantic  Ocean.

A chain of shoals known as Adam's Bridge stretches between India & this island nation	Sri Lanka.

Talk about killer looks--Egyptians used toxic plants called fucus on this facial part; Lancome's Juicy Wear is safer	the lips.

Contra-	against.

In some legends it's the influence of the full moon that changes a man into one of these, also called a lycanthrope	a werewolf.

The title guys of this 1997 sci-fi comedy are "protecting the earth from the scum of the universe"	Men in Black.

In 1909 Louis Bleriot became the first person to fly a plane over this between Great Britain & France	The English Channel.

This large island's 2 highest peaks lie in the Maoke Mountains on the Indonesian side	New Guinea.

In the 1930s Max Factor introduced pan-cake, which was this makeup base	foundation.

Circum-	around.

This hero of mythology cleaned the Augean stables by diverting the courses of 2 nearby rivers	Hercules.

"I see dead people" is a line from this Bruce Willis film	The Sixth Sense.

In 1907 Paul Cornu became the first man to fly freely in one of these horizontally rotored aircraft	a helicopter.

This large Italian island in the Mediterranean lies just 7 miles south of Corsica	Sardinia.

Some makeup shades come in one of these containers named for a board on which artists mix paints	palette.

Dys- (of several definitions, give us a simple 3-letter word)	bad.

In 1910 his new invention helped Scotland Yard catch a murderer escaping to North America across the Atlantic	Marconi.

Though the son of Lord Greystoke, this swinger was raised in the jungle by apes	Tarzan.

Jeff Probst, 16 or so people in the middle of nowhere	Survivor.

A small fib intended not to harm but told in order to avoid embarrassment or distress	a white lie.

If you were a member of the House of Bourbon & ruled France, this was most likely your first name	Louis.

In 1984 this chain sold its 50 billionth hamburger & opened in Finland & Taiwan	McDonald's.

If you practice this discipline, we assume you can assume the lotus position	yoga.

In their first encounter, this house-elf warns Harry Potter not to return to Hogwarts	Dobby.

Donald Trump, 18 people in the middle of New York City	The Apprentice.

It's rolled out at special events for the stars to walk on	a red carpet.

The Americas bear the name of this Italian who explored the area around 1499	Amerigo Vespucci.

Oxford House in Hong Kong clocks in as the home of the Asia edition of this newsmagazine	Time.

Not only is it one of the most populous cities in the world, The Economist reports it's also the most expensive	Tokyo.

This popular series of books features young royal Mia Thermopolis	The Princess Diaries.

Matthew Fox, Evangeline Lilly, Terry O'Quinn	Lost.

Roquefort is a variety of this dairy product	blue cheese.

He was president of the United States during the Spanish-American War	McKinley.

Can't keep this co.

bottled up--it was the first U.S.

co.

to distribute in China when that nation was opened in 1979	Coke.

To sing in the manner of cowboys or Swiss mountaineers	yodel.

In an 1897 novel, he's described as having pointed ears, a cruel-looking mouth & peculiarly sharp white teeth	Dracula.

Dax Shepard, Al Shearer, Ashton Kutcher	Punk'd.

It's the name for a "special" restaurant meal served at a set price	a blue plate special.

Agnes was the original first name of this nun who became "Mother" to the poor of Calcutta	Mother Teresa.

In 1889 the Eastman Company was incorporated in London to distribute products under this snappy name	Kodak.

It's the nighttime "preyer" heard here	a coyote.

In a 1909 sequel, this girl "of Green Gables" returns to "Avonlea" to teach school	Anne.

Paul DiMeo, Paige Hemmis, Ty Pennington	Extreme Makeover: Home Edition.

Jack London's follow-up doggie tale to "The Call of the Wild"	White Fang.

Famous last name of the anti-Stalinist born Lev Davidovich Bronstein in 1879; you could say he was hot to...	Trotsky.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from a marketplace in Moscow, Russia.)  This 150-year-old San Francisco brand used to be a coveted black market item here in Russia; now it's commonplace	Levi Strauss.

During the Cretaceous period plesiosaurs & these "fish lizards" ruled the seas	ichthyosaurs.

Baroque classicism is seen in the temple-like design of this Paris museum where the Venus de Milo lives	the Louvre.

Of 6, 16 or 26 pounds, the weight limit for a standard bowling ball	16.

When Herod said he'd give his stepdaughter anything, she asked for his head on a platter	John the Baptist.

Galway & Donegal Bays indent it	Ireland.

In a letter to these 2 regents, Columbus states no colonists can look for gold without a license from the gov.	Isabella & Ferdinand.

In TV, it's the VC in VCR (you do remember those, don't you?)	videocassette.

From about 1305, the work seen here is one of Italy's first great masterpieces in this, a type of mural painting	fresco.

Gobble up this term for 3 strikes in a row	a turkey.

1 of the 2 women with their own books in the standard King James Bible	Ruth (or Esther).

It put the "zan" in Tanzania	Zanzibar.

The sands of the River Pactolus are fabled to contain gold because Dionysus once told this king to bathe there	Midas.

The enrichment of soil; Dad uses a spreader on the lawn	fertilization.

After buying a country house, Rubens turned to this type of work, like this "with a view of Het Steen"	landscapes.

When making your approach & roll, be sure to not cross over this "line" 60 feet from the headpin	a foul line.

In Judges 16 this strong man dies in Gaza, one of the Philistines' 5 strong cities	Samson.

12 million future Americans were inspected there	Ellis Island.

King Pelias sent this man to search for the Golden Fleece, hoping he wouldn't return	Jason.

Don't delay; it's from the Latin for "to put off til the morrow"	procrastinate.

An iconic work showing the American frontier as Bingham's these "Traders Descending the Missouri"	fur traders.

A perfect 3-game series of 12 strikes in each game would total this many combined points	900.

The subject of the second book of Samuel is this king's reign over Judah & all of Israel	David.

Point Udall in the U.S.

these is the easternmost U.S.

point	the Virgin Islands.

This shiny name was applied to the Mongols & Tatars who overran Europe under Batu Khan's rule	the Golden Horde.

A polygon with 4 sides	quadrilateral.

Cezanne used this style in the 1870s but found it mushy; he wanted to make it "solid and durable"	Impressionism.

In bowling, it's the best spot between the front pins to roll your ball, or something found in pants & shirts	the pocket.

Because Joab wouldn't take Absalom to meet the king, Absalom had this done to Joab's field	burnt it.

War's first nuclear attack was on this island	Honshu.

An island group east of New Guinea is named for the biblical king famous for his legendary gold mines	Solomon.

It means having one color	monochromatic.

Originally beardless, Uncle Sam got  his chin whiskers from images depicting this real-life man	Abraham Lincoln.

The female cockroach has a packing case for these & carries it until she finds a good spot for them	her eggs.

This Sir Arthur Conan Doyle character once remarked "A man's brain originally is like a little empty attic"	Sherlock Holmes.

As Kojak, this actor loved you, baby	Telly Savalas.

Old Grand-Dad, Jim Beam, Wild Turkey	bourbon.

Transportation for kids	go karts.

Any Scottish one over 3,000' is called a Munro, for the man who made a list of them in 1891	mountain.

Of its nose, tongue or feet, it's where a fly has its "taste buds"	feet.

Examples of these pains in the brain include the cluster & tension varieties	headaches.

Darrin Stephens was the flabbergasted husband on this magical sitcom	Bewitched.

Finlandia, Absolut, Stolichnaya	vodka.

From a Persian word for "snake-eater", a markhor is a wild type of this bearded ruminant	goat.

When handled, these jumpers spit a brown liquid some call "tobacco juice"	grasshoppers.

It does "matter" that you give us this colorful slang term for the brain	gray matter.

In the "Star Trek" episode "Amok Time" this character wants to return to his home planet to mate	Mr.

Spock.

Bombay, Beefeater, Tanqueray	gin.

This 1965 record was Shirley Bassey's biggest hit in the U.S.	"Goldfinger".

These long-snouted pests may attack shrubs & berries, but the boll type concentrates on cotton	weevils.

It's not cloudbursts in the skull, but shared problem solving in which everyone contributes ideas	brainstorming.

Harvard-educated surgeon Charles Winchester replaced Major Frank Burns on this show	M*A*S*H.

Appleton, Captain Morgan, Bacardi	rum.

A word for mining haphazardly in irregular holes comes from the name of this burrowing rodent	gopher.

The chigoe, or chigger, is also known as the sand type of this pest	flea.

It's the name for the brain-wasting cattle infection that crippled the British beef industry in 1996	mad cow disease.

The Brady Bunch had a cat named Fluffy & a dog named this	Tiger.

Two Fingers, Herradura, Jose Cuervo	tequila.

Biblical name shared by the oldest son of Japheth & a TV Marine	Gomer.

The flag of this international organization is based on the Swiss flag	the Red Cross.

Act I of this 1997 "Best Musical" features an opening sequence titled "The Launching"	Titanic.

She played Erica's cellmate on "All My Children" before she won an Oscar for "Misery"	Kathy Bates.

Flipper	dolphin.

If you go swimming, wear the waterproof type of this lash enhancer so you don't get "raccoon eyes"	mascara.

Muy caliente!  This Spanish superstar has sung successful duets with Stevie Wonder & Willie Nelson	Julio Iglesias.

On June 12, 1897 Karl Elsener officially registered this multipurpose pocket tool	Swiss army knife.

"Big River", featuring such characters as the Widow Douglas & Tom Sawyer, is based on this book	"Huckleberry Finn".

This "Suddenly Susan" co-star appeared on film in "The Cable Guy" & "Pulp Fiction"	Kathy Griffin.

Mighty Joe Young	ape.

French for "red", L'Oreal makes a "Virtuale" version of it	rouge.

Gelato is the Italian word for this treat	ice cream.

If you're into this Swiss product you may want to "hole" up in the town of Gruyeres	Swiss cheese.

In an Andrew Lloyd Webber-Tim Rice show, it's the other title word describing Joseph's amazing dreamcoat	Technicolor.

As Olive on "Veronica's Closet", she finds that life isn't the pits	Kathy Najimy.

Black Beauty	horse.

Estee Lauder suggests putting this on top of your foundation twice: with a cotton ball & a big, fluffy brush	powder.

In criminal law, it's defined as an individual's inability to distinguish right from wrong	insanity.

This geographic extreme for Switzerland is 636 feet above sea level at Lake Maggiore	the lowest point.

This Sondheim tune begins, "Something familiar, something peculiar, something for everyone, a..."	"Comedy Tonight".

This supermodel's official website features shopping tips, a book corner & a "Get in Touch with Kathy" section	Kathy Ireland.

Beethoven	St.

Bernard.

This makeup maven has the same name as Whitney Houston's husband, but she spells it differently	Bobbi Brown.

We Canadians know this U.S.

government branch is abbreviated I.N.S.	Immigration and Naturalization Service.

You'd have to have your head examined to check into the C.G.

Jung Institute of this largest Swiss city	Zurich.

1959 musical that introduced the song "Everything's Coming Up Roses"	Gypsy.

Lauren Chapin played Kathy, also known as "Kitten", on this classic sitcom	Father Knows Best.

Fievel	mouse.

Gash & acid rain are popular hues of Urban Decay makeup, whose ads have asked, "Does" this pastel color "make you puke?"	pink.

This ancient Greek epic poem attributed to Homer describes the siege of Troy	"The Iliad".

A traveling exhibit honoring the 200th anniversary of his death features his false teeth	George Washington.

80% of this molasses-based potent potable consumed in the U.S.

is imported from Puerto Rico	rum.

1941: "Rosebud..."	Citizen Kane.

Britney, Christina & Justin were part of the Mickey Mouse one	Club.

In 622 Muhammad fled this city; in 630 he came back with 10,000 followers & captured it	Mecca.

In the 1940s Borden's came up with this companion for Elsie to be the symbol for its new white glue	Elmer.

It can be a king, a queen or a butterfly	monarch.

In 1917 the Second Organic Act, also called the Jones Act, gave this to Puerto Ricans	citizenship.

2001: "Good evening, Clarice!  Just like old times"	Hannibal.

Chambers Dictionary says its "sense as a baseball infield area appeared...in 1875"	diamond.

The opening of this in 1869 cut 4,000 miles & weeks of sailing off trips	the Suez Canal.

His first appearance on the cover of Mad was in 1956 as a write-in candidate for president	Alfred E.

Neuman.

Dishes cooked a la Florentine contain this vegetable	spinach.

Now a popular tourist attraction, El Morro Fortress was built by the Spaniards to guard this city's bay	San Juan.

1960: "No novocaine...it dulls the senses"	Little Shop of Horrors.

Kasper Gutman tells him, "By gad, sir, you're a character"	Sam Spade.

Einhard's "Life of" this Frankish ruler says he almost doubled the size of the realm his father Pepin left him	Charlemagne.

In 1957 the New York Evening Enquirer expanded its scope & renamed itself this	the National Enquirer.

Nationality that can precede auction, oven & treat	Dutch.

In 1509 he became Puerto Rico's first governor; 4 years later he sailed for Florida	Ponce de Leon.

1967: "Mrs.

Robinson, do you think we could say a few words to each other first this time?"	The Graduate.

It gets a 10 on the standard Mohs scale	diamond.

It was under this czar that Russia went on the Julian calendar used in the West; he liked Western stuff	Peter the Great.

Unhappy with the quality of these, Dr.

Amar Bose designed his own & formed a company to sell them	speakers.

It's what Canadians call Bigfoot, eh?	Sasquatch.

In June musicians take part in a festival honoring this cellist who lived there the last 17 years of his life	(Pablo) Casals.

1989: "Where does he get those wonderful toys?"	Batman.

It's a synonym for core or center	heart.

He was the junker, or landowner, whom Prussia's Wilhelm I chose to be his prime minister in 1862	(Otto von) Bismarck.

Milan company known for its tires & sexy calendars	Pirelli.

Derived from Yiddish, it means to complain, with a little whining thrown in for good measure	kvetch.

The Comstock Lode on Mt.

Davidson in western Nevada was the richest find of this element in the U.S.	silver.

In 1986 Johnny Cash recorded a religious song called this, the opposite of his nickname	"The Man in White".

Friar with an everlasting name in the Bluegrass State	Tuck.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew at Gleason's Gym in New York City)  This great champ who trained at Gleason's Gym invented the "Rope-a-dope" technique to tire his opponents	Muhammad Ali.

For losing 3 pairs of these, the 3 Little Kittens temporarily lost pie privileges in a Mother Goose rhyme	their mittens.

A thespian: "Kate Remembered"	Katharine Hepburn.

Baking soda, salt & lye all contain this element	sodium.

(Hi, I'm Richie McDonald) They say this is good news, but not in my band Lonestar's No.

1 song with this title	"No News".

Trumpeter Armstrong, who could be found in a gulf state	Louis (from "Louisiana").

After a knockdown during a match, the standing boxer must retire to one of these	a neutral corner.

This football team from New York state lost 4 straight Super Bowls	the Buffalo Bills.

A comedienne: "Ball of Fire"	Lucille Ball.

Plants absorb its isotope 90 generated by nuclear fallout	strontium.

The song "On the Beach at" this place, which became a stateside standard, was first published in Honolulu in 1915	Waikiki.

The Woolf is at the door as this stately name	Virginia.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew)  From the Middle English for "thrust", it's a term used for practice fighting	sparring.

1 of the 3 losing numbers on a first roll in craps	2, 3, or 12.

An athlete: "It's Not About the Bike"	Lance Armstrong.

Element No.

16, it's used in vulcanization	sulphur.

Undistinguished congressman Joseph Hopkinson is remembered for writing "Hail" this, now the VP's intro music	Columbia.

The Everglades & this first name of "Tank Girl" Petty are found in the Sunshine State	Lori (from "Florida").

By setting many of the rules still used today, the 8th Marquess of this turned boxing from fisticuffs into an art form	Queensberry.

In Genesis he loses one garment to his brothers & another to Potiphar's wife	Joseph.

A president: "Fortunate Son"	George W.

Bush.

It was named for the moon as it was found with tellurium which was named for the Earth	selenium.

In this 1938 song the title line is followed by "Where you're terrific if you're even good"	"Hooray for Hollywood".

German actress & drama coach Hagen who's been hangin' around a Western state	Uta (from "Utah").

(Cheryl) The subject of the film "Raging Bull", this Gleason's Gym trainee held the middleweight title from 1949 to 1951	Jake LaMotta.

It's an atom that can become electrically charged by losing one or more electrons	ion.

An impresario: "The Colonel"	(Tom) Parker.

Of the genus Phascolarctos, it's 23-33" tall with a stout gray or brown body, a big round nose & strong claws	a koala.

"C" is for this dramatic device of the Greeks, employed to speak the prologue in "Henry V"	a chorus.

Dean & Jerry	Martin & Lewis.

Ghosts at the Mounds Theatre in this "twin city" of Minneapolis are said to sit with the audience & watch shows	St.

Paul.

The woman who started 1956 as Golda Myerson ended it as this at the insistence of her boss, David Ben-Gurion	Golda Meir.

Slavery was introduced into what would become the U.S.

in this Virginia settlement in 1619	Jamestown.

Avian term for an abrupt quitting of an addictive habit	cold turkey.

"A" is for this "Romeo & Juliet" tradesman, a druggist from whom Romeo buys poison	apothecary.

George & Gracie	Burns & Allen.

The ghost of impresario David Belasco is said to haunt the theatre named for him on West 44th St.

in this city	New York.

Philadelphia philanthropist Rebecca Gratz was the inspiration for Rebecca in this Sir Walter Scott novel	Ivanhoe.

Born in Virginia in 1856 & elected in 1912, he was the last Virginian to become president	Woodrow Wilson.

Elevated platform on which a convicted criminal is executed	a scaffold.

Used in "Othello": "Z" is for this interjection, a corruption of "God's wounds"	zounds.

Dan & Dick	Rowan & Martin.

In this Toni Morrison novel, the ghost of a slave's baby visits post-Civil War Ohio	Beloved.

This Vietnam Veterans Memorial designer was the subject of an Oscar-winning documentary	(Maya) Lin.

The state of Virginia was so named in her honor	Elizabeth I.

Fantail & telescope-eyed are fancy varieties of these popular aquarium fish of the genus Carassius	goldfish.

"O" is for this lover of Rosalind in "As You Like It"	Orlando.

Edgar & Charlie	Edgar Bergen & Charlie McCarthy.

London's Cock Lane ghost was so famous that it was investigated by this man, the subject of a Boswell bio	(Samuel) Johnson.

This relative of a famed film director began choreographing for the Ballet Theatre before it was "American"	Agnes de Mille.

Called the Eastern Shore, Virginia's part of the Delmarva Peninsula is split from the mainland by this bay	the Chesapeake.

To burn slowly without flame, like a suppressed anger or passion	to smolder.

"F" is for this character in "Hamlet"; his father, the king of Norway, was killed by Hamlet's dad	Fortinbras.

Jerry & Anne	Stiller & Meara.

A poltergeist known as "Old Jeffrey" haunted the English home in which these Methodist brothers grew up	the Wesleys (John & Charles).

NPR legal eagle Nina Totenberg reported on this woman's story, helping reopen the Clarence Thomas hearings	Anita Hill.

From the genus Cornus, it's Virginia's state flower	the dogwood.

Until 1991 this landlocked nation east of the Carpathian Mountains was a republic of the Soviet Union	Moldova.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew reports from the Gerald R.

Ford museum in Grand Rapids, MI.) This is the actual pen used by President Ford on Sept.

8, 1974 to affix his signature to this document, saying that "It is the right thing to do"	the pardon of Richard Nixon.

Her husband, from the band Bush, could tell you she's sung about rich, Orange County & Harajuku girls	Gwen Stefani.

The bestselling car in 9 of the past 10 years is this model, now available in a hybrid version	Camry.

On 1950s TV, the answer that followed "Say, kids, what time is it?"	Howdy Doody Time!.

Food item that's the culinary specialty of the Israeli restaurant chain McDavid	a hamburger.

A detachable shirt front, as worn by cousin Eddie in "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation"	a dickey.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew gives the clue.) I'm holding Gerald Ford's football helmet; he was a 2-way player at linebacker & center, & this team's MVP of 1934	Michigan.

Her management wanted her to go to "Rehab", so she fired them & sang about it on "Back to  Black"	Amy Winehouse.

This 3-letter movie theater system standard was developed at George Lucas' Skywalker Ranch	THX.

In 1956 this 4-word phrase became the national motto of the U.S.	In God we trust.

How about a salad, like this one created at legendary Hollywood restaurant The Brown Derby	a Cobb salad.

The act of uttering words to be transcribed by another	dictation.

(Cheryl stands next to a large ornate plate.) This beautiful Kutani plate was presented to President Ford in 1975 by this emperor, the first from his country ever to visit the United States	Hirohito.

Created in 1958, this agency superseded the NACA, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics	NASA.

Sasha Cohen would know this name for an edible ray; I'm having it poached	skate.

"Let us go in, the fog is rising" were said to be the last words of this poet	Dickinson.

(Cheryl gives the clue from the Ford Museum.) This Colt .45 pistol was used in an attempted assassination of President Ford on Sept.

5, 1975 in Sacramento by this disciple of Charles Manson	Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme.

Guy Mollet became France's premier on Jan.

31, 1956; on Feb.

6 he flew to this country to evaluate the situation	Algeria.

Japanese noodles, whether udon or these buckwheat-flour ones, are often served in broth	soba.

6-letter term for a judicial assertion or an edict	a dictum.

(Jimmy stands next to a menorah.) This ancient menorah was a gift from this Israeli prime minister & Labor Party leader; his first term in office coincided with Gerald Ford's: 1974-1977	(Yitzhak) Rabin.

In 2001 IBM sold these types of USB drives called "memory keys" in 8MB size; today you can get them in gigs	flash drives.

The '50s saw the arrival of the word "neato" & of this defense org.

that included the U.S., Thailand & the Philippines	SEATO (Southeast Asia Treaty Organization).

Hope you're hungry! This choice steak cut is huge & contains meat from the top loin & the tenderloin	a porterhouse.

A division into 2 usually contradictory parts or opinions	a dichotomy.

Of all the cities to host the modern Olympic Games, this one lies closest to the equator	Mexico City.

This impressionist was as skilled at painting people as he was at painting fields & sunsets	Renoir.

Jack Handey "Deep Thought": "To me", this sport "is like a ballet, except, there's no music...

and the dancers hit each other"	boxing.

Comfy casual brand for your dogs (4, 7)	Hush Puppies.

This state had the first hospital, the first circulating library & the first scientific society, endowed by Ben Franklin himself	Pennsylvania.

Hortense Powdermaker did fieldwork in this California place & wrote a book calling it "The Dream Factory"	Hollywood.

The only word in "The Pledge of Allegiance" that starts & ends with "N"	nation.

One of the hundreds of portraits painted by this artist is seen here	Stuart.

Hallelujah!  This "Late Night" bandleader co-wrote The Weather Girls' "It's Raining Men"	Paul Shaffer.

All Star high-top brand (8)	Converse.

In 1933 this state ushered in the first drive-in movie theater; it was located in Camden	New Jersey.

Ruth Benedict's study of this country began at the behest of the U.S.

Office of War Information in the 1940s	Japan.

It's the first age you reach when you're surrounded by "N"s	nineteen.

Life in the tenements of New York was a favorite subject of this Robert Henri "School"	the Ashcan School.

Neal McDonough was drafted to play Lt.

Buck Compton in this WWII miniseries co-produced by Steven Spielberg	Band of Brothers.

Soft shoes to walk a mile in (9)	moccasins.

In 1869 this state scored big with the first professional baseball team, the Red Stockings	Ohio.

Among the Ndembu, Victor Turner studied these transitional "rites", like isolation for young boys	rites of passage.

A webcam on this university's School of Communications is pointed at Lake Michigan	Northwestern.

He painted the 1784 Neoclassical masterpiece seen here	(Jacques-Louis) David.

Sigourney Weaver made her debut as "Alvy's date outside theater" in this 1977 Oscar winner	Annie Hall.

Comic book girl's namesake patent-leather shoes (4, 5)	Mary Janes.

In 2001 it became the first U.S.

state to ban hand-held phone use while driving	New York.

A debate raged between Sahlins & Obeyesekere over whether the Hawaiians really thought this man was a god	(Capt.) Cook.

This "Dance" by the Pointer Sisters was featured in the film "Beverly Hills Cop"	"The Neutron Dance".

First name of the son seen here in a 1655 portrait by his father	Titus.

Before winning an Oscar for playing a shrink, he imitated Elmer Fudd singing Bruce Springsteen	Robin Williams.

Classic tennis shoe brand (1-5)	K-Swiss.

In 1989 this state elected the first African-American governor, L.

Douglas Wilder	Virginia.

Franz Boas organized the Jesup Expedition of 1902, exploring the relationship of people of these 2 continents	Asia & North America.

A black widow spider's venom is classified as this 10-letter type of poison	a neurotoxin.

In "Civil Disobedience", this transcendentalist said, "That government is best which governs least"	Thoreau.

A 1981 movie-within-a-movie: "The ___ Lieutenant's Woman"	French.

This room isn't just for actors; it's become part of many master bedroom suites	a dressing room.

This future Chief Justice was Dewey's 1948 running mate	(Earl) Warren.

One of the Canterbury Tales tells of the Wyf of this place (which Chaucer spelled with an E on the end)	Bath.

It was really after this 1815 battle that Louis XVIII felt secure back on his old throne	Waterloo.

His "Beyond Good and Evil" is prophetically subtitled "Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future"	Nietzsche.

A 1996 weepie: "The ___ Patient"	English.

(Hi, I'm Paige Davis, host of TLC's Trading Spaces.)  Tips for doing this to your space include hanging mirrors, washing a wall with light & laying down area rugs	making it look larger.

The name of this 1868 loser is on the president's guest house	(Francis) Blair.

In the first line of "The Canterbury Tales" this calendar word is spelled to end with a double L	April.

The roof of a factory & museum in Eden, N.Y.

has the world's largest metal one of these toy instruments	a kazoo.

It may defy pure reason, but this philosopher seen here spent his whole life, 1724 to 1804, in Koenigsburg in East Prussia	Kant.

'50s nostalgia from 1978: "___ Hot Wax"	American.

Before "dining room", this word that evokes tuxedos just means it's a separate room	formal.

His 1920 run with James M.

Cox didn't end his political career	Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

Chaucer spells this word to end in D-E-L; it's where a child of "half yeer age" lies	a cradle.

Members of this Algonquian-speaking tribe live in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas & Mexico, but not in Dogpatch	the Kickapoo.

This Scottish philosopher who died in 1776 denied that a miracle can be proved with any amount or kind of evidence	David Hume.

A 1995 comedy: "___ Bacon"	Canadian.

A storage room by the kitchen where china & silver are kept is his "pantry"	the butler's pantry.

Bryan's 1900 running mate; his grandson with the same name also lost a race or 2	Adlai Stevenson.

One Chaucer poem is about "The Parliament" of these (spelled with a U in place of the W)	Fowls.

They're the two pets seen here whose names differ by a letter	cockapoo & cockatoo.

This 20th century German wondered about the nature of being in works like "Being and Time"	Martin Heidegger.

A 1997 Mamet mystery: "The ___ Prisoner"	Spanish.

Named for its recessed panels, it's the type of ceiling shown; you can get a less elaborate version for the home	coffered ceiling.

This New Yorker was landslided with Goldwater	William Miller.

The pilgrims are off to the shrine of Thomas Becket, whom Chacuer calls the "Blisful" this (with an I where we put a Y)	martyr.

Common Australian term for a newcomer on a sheep or cattle ranch	a jackeroo.

Capital of the ancient Roman province of Galatia, it became a modern national capital in 1923	Ankara.

Sam Ealy Johnson, Jr.	Lyndon B.

Johnson.

The dormer type of this is placed vertically in a gable in a sloping roof	Window.

They were ancient even before the other 6 wonders were built	Pyramids.

In 1949 Bing Crosby played this title New Englander who travels back to a time of knights & ladies	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.

At about 9 feet & 1,700 pounds, this large bear shares its name with an Alaskan island	Kodiak.

A lot of exaggerated hip swinging is used in this complex Cuban dance	Rhumba.

Theodore Roosevelt	Teddy Roosevelt.

Home is where this floor of the fireplace is	Hearth.

Its flowers & trees were irrigated by slaves turning screws to lift water from the Euphrates River	Hanging Gardens of Babylon.

When this duo traveled through time in a souped-up phone booth, everything was "Excellent"	Bill & Ted.

The Asiatic black bear also bears the beary nice name of these Indian mountains where it dwells	Himalayas.

Glen Campbell was this kind of "Cowboy" in a 1975 No.

1 hit	"Rhinestone Cowboy".

Benjamin Harrison V	William Henry Harrison.

It's a tastier-sounding synonym for a doorcheck or doorpost	Door jamb.

This ancient wonder is said to have worn a sun-ray crown & stand beside, not over, a harbor	Colossus of Rhodes.

The fourth installment of this film series involved 2 time-traveling whales	Star Trek.

Often named Bruin, this species is the most likely to be found in children's stories of Europe & Asia	Brown bear.

It can be a serious quarrel or a red-stalked vegetable used in cooking	Rhubarb.

Leslie Lynch King	Gerald Ford.

An unsolicited book manuscript is submitted "over" this, a crosspiece above a door	Transom.

Its light was created by fires of wood or oil intensified by several metal mirrors	Lighthouse of Alexandria.

As this author, Malcolm McDowell chases Jack the Ripper across time in the 1979 thriller "Time After Time"	H.G.

Wells.

This smallest bear species bears the name of a heavenly object	Sun bear.

This critter seen here shares its name with a wife of the ancient Greek god Cronus:	Rhea.

William Jefferson Blythe III	Bill Clinton.

L-E-N-T-I-L spells a legume; rearranged & spelled this way, you get a supporting piece	L-I-N-T-E-L.

In the 4th century, this ancient wonder was transported from Olympia to Constantinople	Statue of Zeus at Olympia.

A military "Experiment" sends sailor Michael Pare over 40 years into the future in this film	The Philadelphia Experiment.

Spectacled bears are the only species found on this continent	South America.

It's a term for a free-form musical composition emotional in effect & improvisational in nature	Rhapsody.

With 1 T it's an English county; with 2 Ts, Heisman Trophy winner Tony	Dorset/Dorsett.

This star who plays TV's Dharma is a classically trained ballerina	Jenna Elfman.

This Emily Bronte novel opens with Mr.

Lockwood telling of a visit with his landlord, Mr.

Heathcliff	"Wuthering Heights".

"When You Wish Upon A Star"	Pinocchio.

In 1805, in memory of this admiral, his brother William was made an Earl of Trafalgar	Lord Nelson.

By definition, it's the ism practiced by a peeping Tom	Voyeurism.

Sussex was named for the south Saxons; this county was named for the east Saxons	Essex.

Movies like "The River" & "Crimes of the Heart" have earned her 5 Oscar nominations for Best Actress	Sissy Spacek.

Charlotte's experience at boarding school formed the basis for Lowood in this 1847 novel	"Jane Eyre".

"Take My Breath Away"	Top Gun.

He died a vice admiral in 1817, that little 1789 mutiny behind him	William Bligh.

This "rate" tells how many criminals leave prison & relapse into bad behavior	Recidivism.

Its name means "Southern district with the fringe on top" (okay, we lied about the fringe part)	Surrey.

She revealed that after making "The Heartbreak Kid" she had a fling with Elvis Presley	Cybill Shepherd.

Like the title character of Anne's "Agnes Grey", Anne & Charlotte both worked as these	Governesses.

"You Must Love Me"	Evita.

In less than a day, May 1, 1898, his fleet demolished the Spanish fleet in Manila Bay	George Dewey.

Max Weber's best-known work is "The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of" this economic system	Capitalism.

Becket was killed in this county, home to Canterbury	Kent.

(Hi, I'm Melody Thomas Scott from "The Young and the Restless")  In my film debut at age 8, I stole the show playing this Alfred Hitchcock thief as a young girl	Marnie.

The book of poetry Charlotte, Emily & Anne published under this pseudonymous last name sold only 2 copies	Bell (Currer, Ellis & Acton).

"I'm Easy"	Nashville.

At the National Security Council Ollie North reported to this vice admiral	John Poindexter.

From Greek for "The Inhabited World", it refers to the movement toward Christian unity	Ecumenism.

The westernmost county of England, or what the eldest son of the monarch is duke of	Cornwall.

This French actress played a seductress in "Damage" before nursing "The English Patient"	Juliette Binoche.

The portrait of the Brontes seen here was painted by this man, their brother:	Patrick Branwell Bronte.

"Sooner or Later (I Always Get My Man)"	Dick Tracy.

He supervised the planning & construction of the first U.S.

nuclear-powered sub, the Nautilus	Hyman Rickover.

As part of this Renaissance movement, Montaigne & Erasmus advocated individual reason	Humanism.

After his 1955 death, his papers were given to Jerusalem's Hebrew Univ.

& his violin was left to his grandson	Albert Einstein.

This crayon brand also makes Click Em On markers & Spider Writers	Crayola.

If this play were written today, Blanche would have to ride the bus; the title vehicle doesn't run any more	A Streetcar Named Desire.

Trista Rehn was this 2003 TV title person	The Bachelorette.

It means to defrost or melt	thaw.

It's the first verb in the Pledge of Allegiance	pledge.

Brewed up a 1954 marriage to Marilyn Monroe & several TV coffee ads	Joe DiMaggio.

This brand name is found on disposable lighters & razors, as well as ballpoint pens	Bic.

You could ride in a carriage to St.

Louis Cathedral, named for Louis IX, a canonized king of this country	France.

"New Romantic" artist Richard Clayderman has recorded over 1,000 melodies on this instrument	piano.

Not surprisingly, the city of London, Ontario Canada is located on a river called this	Thames.

The name of the Gobi, a vast desert of central Asia, means this in Mongolian	desert.

Went solo in 1985 & had a hit with the following ["Just A Gigolo"]	David Lee Roth.

Fluorescent yellow or pink is a good choice for this felt tip pen whose name indicates its use in marking texts	highlighter.

Many types of birds featured in this man's paintings may be seen at the New Orleans zoo named for him	John James Audubon.

In the film "Raw Deal" he tells a woman who throws a cake at him, "You should not drink and bake"	Arnold Schwarzenegger.

He's the beloved British phenom seen here	Thomas the Tank Engine.

Charlie & David Kaufman got an Oscar nomination for their adaptation of "The Orchid Thief" into this film	Adaptation.

Graduated 21st of 39 from West Point in 1843, came out No.

1 at Appomattox in 1865	Ulysses S.

Grant.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew)  Appropriately, the name of this kind of pen is from the Greek for "beautiful writing"	calligraphy.

Enjoy munching on the beignets at the Cafe Du Monde on this "presidential" square	Jackson Square.

Red Dress Ink, a new line from this romance publisher, features neurotic, cocktail-swilling urban heroines	Harlequin.

With ketchup, mayo & relish, you can make a simple version of this salad dressing	Thousand Island.

I'm Charley Pride, It's the title of my 10th album	"Charley Pride's 10th Album".

Born Joseph Vissarionovich Dzhugashivili in 1879, died suddenly under a different name in 1953	Joseph Stalin.

In 1884 Louis E.

Waterman patented the first practical one of these	fountain pen.

Canal St.

boasts a statue of Ignatius J.

Reilly, the hero of this prize-winning novel by John Kennedy Toole	"A Confederacy of Dunces".

You've sung along with the car radio to this band heard here -- don't tell us you haven't ["Don't Stop Believing"]	Journey.

It's another name for vitamin B-1	Thiamine.

It's the state song of the state of Maine	"The State of Maine Song".

Mockingly suggested that poor children should be fed to rich people in his pamphlet "A Modest Proposal"	Jonathan Swift.

He was "Poor" Richard Saunders	Ben Franklin.

This show won the Outstanding Drama Series Emmy in 1968, but we disavow any knowledge of it	Mission: Impossible.

In the 1930s inventive minds at Warner's introduced the A, B, C & D cup sizes for these	bras.

It's the color that's usually found before "tea ice cream"	green.

When Kennedy & Khrushchev met in Vienna in 1961, JFK suggested the countries combine their efforts to go here	the moon.

Sidney Poitier movie opera that preceded Mamie Eisenhower as first lady	Porgy and Bess Truman.

His first book, "Maggie: A Girl of the Streets", was so shocking that he published it under the name Johnston Smith	Stephen Crane.

The actress seen here (Kathy Kinney) plays this sitcom character	Mimi.

In 1957 W.

Ralph Gamber became the first to sell honey in a container shaped like one of these	bear.

At age 10, future New Jersey governor Christie Whitman raised $10 for the G.O.P.

at this type of stand	lemonade stand.

This 11-country group that includes Algeria & Venezuela is headquartered in Vienna, but Austria isn't a member	OPEC.

"Wizard of Oz" song that made it to the big screen with Tom Hanks as a hit man for the Irish mob	Follow the Yellow Brick Road to Perdition.

Nathan Weinstein wrote "Miss Lonelyhearts" using this name	Nathanael West.

Believe it or not, back in 1949, he was the original host of "Believe It or Not"	Robert Ripley.

In the 1960s Hoyle Schweitzer & Jim Drake added one of these to a surfboard to help create a new sport	sail.

Diced hard-boiled eggs are sometimes added to this cold tomato soup from Andalusia	gazpacho.

At the Congress of Vienna, the duchy of Parma was given to this man's second wife, Marie-Louise of Austria	Napoleon.

Liberator & king of Scotland who starred in "Die Hard"	Robert the Bruce Willis.

This pseudonym means "2 fathoms deep"	Mark Twain.

She's the "Night Court" actress seen here	Markie Post.

In 1952 he & Charles Bowman joined forces to develop a hybrid corn that left fewer kernels unpopped	Orville Redenbacher.

Lemon juice, sugar, gin, club soda & an egg go into a refreshing royal gin one of these	royal gin fizz.

The Wienerwald; Johann Strauss composed some "Tales of" them	the Vienna Woods.

Sondheim musical about a Seurat painting & the 1972 Democratic presidential nominee	Sunday in the Park with George McGovern.

Mary Ann Evans became George Eliot; Amandine-Aurore-Lucile Dupin wore men's clothes & used this male name	George Sand.

The 1985-86 troupe on this show included Anthony Michael Hall, Joan Cusack & Robert Downey, Jr.	Saturday Night Live.

Scott Archer came up with the wet collodion process used in the first 20 years of this art	photography.

Kefir, a treat from the Caucasus, is this liquid fermented until it's up to 3% alcohol	goat's milk.

The 450-foot steeple of this saint's cathedral can be seen from almost anywhere in the city	St.

Stephen.

American general who negotiated the Treaty of Greenville, earned the nickname "Mr.

Las Vegas" & sang "Danke Schoen"	Mad Anthony Wayne Newton.

This department contains the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Secret Service & the Coast Guard	Department of Homeland Security.

Florenz Ziegfield produced his first of these extravaganzas in 1907 & would continue them for the next 24 years	the Follies.

In a nice 2-year run, he married Marilyn in 1954 & was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in '55	Joe DiMaggio.

In a song from Meredith Wilson's "The Music Man", this many trombones "led the big parade"	76.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew visits with the bison at the Catalina Island Conservancy.)  Catalina can't support large numbers of bison, so in 2004, about 100 of them were repatrioted to their ancestral home in this Mt.

Rushmore state	South Dakota.

"All the news that's fit to print"	The New York Times.

"Dumbledore" is actually an old word for this insect; J.K.

Rowling imagined him humming all the time	a bumblebee.

With this man as president, the government budget was $579 million & unemployment stood at 2.8%	Teddy Roosevelt.

Richard Nixon's "Enemies List" included Jane Fonda & this N.Y.

Jets quarterback	Joe Namath.

Using a 200-year-old technique, a V.A.

hospital in Long Beach, Calif.

has utilized these fly larvae to treat patients	maggots.

Amsterdam Island in the Indian Ocean, 1,800 mi.

from any cont., has a rare type of this wandering seabird	the albatross.

"With a name like" this one, "it has to be good!"	Smuckers.

Robinsonade is not a refreshing drink, it's a novel similar in theme to a work by this author	Defoe.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew compares two paintings on the monitor.)  The work here from 1906 doesn't quite prepare us for the launch of this art movement by the same artist 1 year later	Cubism.

In 1973 George Foreman grilled this "Smokin'" guy, knocking him down 6 times in 2 rounds	Joe Frazier.

Ranking just above a captain, not behind him, it's a U.S.

Navy admiral with 1 star	a rear admiral.

We hope the endangered Carolina Northern "flying" species of this rodent keeps on flying	a squirrel.

"It takes a licking and keeps on ticking"	Timex.

Too much time enjoying potent potables?  You could end up with a katzenjammer, one of these	a hangover.

For works like "Gunga Din", he became the first Brit awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature	Kipling.

In 1908, troubled by blisters, this outfielder played in his stocking feet	"Shoeless Joe" Jackson.

In 1989 Pope John Paul II added these 2 automobile-related acts to the official list of Catholic sins	speeding & drunken driving.

Steller's sea cow was extinct by 1768; Stellar's sea this animal is hanging tough	a sea lion.

"Choosy moms choose" this	Jif.

The fact that clavate means shaped like this isn't something you have to hit me over the head with	a club.

More than 40 nations attended the second "International Peace Conference" of this Dutch city	The Hague.

In 1950 he became an assistant coach for Penn State football; in '66, he took over as head coach	(Joe) Paterno.

For one game, minor league baseball's St.

Paul Saints used these on top of the dugout to reenact big plays	mimes.

South America's woolly spider type of this has a rudimentary or no thumb & a badly fragmented habitat	a monkey.

"Because I'm worth it"	L'Oral.

The name of this light, crinkled fabric comes from the Persian shir o shakkar, meaning "milk & sugar"	seersucker.

Ismael Rodriguez' 1961 film "Animas Trujano" starring Toshiro Mifune was Oscar-nominated in this category	Foreign Language Film.

In Concepcion this large dog is called un gran danes	a Great Dane.

Meggie Cleary & Father Ralph de Bricassart shared a secret & doomed love in this bestseller set in the Outback	The Thorn Birds.

Similar to steak tartare, kitfo is a cold ground beef dish that is served this way	uncooked (or raw).

To completely reverse your direction while driving is to "pull" one of these	a one-eighty.

A shooting in Morocco touches off a story spanning 3 continents in this 2006 Gonzalez Inarritu film	Babel.

Any lassie in Chile could tell you that this dog is un perro de pastor escoces	a collie.

Nobel Prize winner Patrick White was noted for using this technique where thoughts flow freely & at random	stream of consciousness.

Tej is a type of this made with honey; Ethiopians think it was once shared by Solomon & the Queen of Sheba	a mead (or wine).

Numerical name for Scheherazade's tales	One Thousand and One Nights.

Cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki has worked with many Hollywood filmmakers, like this director of "Sleepy Hollow"	Tim Burton.

In Santiago this dog unrivaled for its scenting powers is un sabueso	a bloodhound.

Nearly 30 years after "The Female Eunuch", she followed it up with "The Whole Woman"	Germaine Greer.

For Ethiopian meals, coffee is usually served in this small cups, from the French for "half-cup"	a demitasse.

The main dramatic section that begins a play, or the title of playwright Moss Hart's autobiography	Act One.

Before Alfonso Cuaron brought "Children of Men" to the big screen, he directed this third Harry Potter outing	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.

Play fetch with un perro perdiguero de oro, this fetching dog	a golden retriever.

Go here, young man, to this author of "The Devil's Advocate" & "The Shoes of the Fisherman"	Morris West.

Teff, similar to millet, is a type of this that comes from a grass grown in Ethiopia	a grain.

A popular koan, or meditation subject or Zen Buddhism, asks the student to try to imagine this sound	one hand clapping.

Guillermo del Toro's directing credits include "The Devil's Backbone" & this 2006 Oscar-winning film	Pan's Labyrinth.

Chile dogs include the pastor aleman, this breed	the German shepherd.

After settling in Australia, he set many of his novels there, like "On the Beach" & "A Town Like Alice"	(Nevil) Shute.

Similar to the Indian ghee, niter kibbeh is a clarified spice-infused type of this & is used in many dishes	butter.

Based in Chicago, this financial services provider merged with J.P.

Morgan Chase in 2004	Bank One.

In 1881 he wrote to Emile Zola, "I must soon leave Vetheuil, and I am looking for a pretty place by the Seine"	Claude Monet.

"Because I could not stop for death, he kindly stopped for" this poet on May 15, 1886	Emily Dickinson.

It's also known as sonography, baby	ultrasound.

In 1984 Sammy Hagar sang, "Write me up a 125, post my face wanted dead or alive...I can't drive" this speed	55.

On a clear day you can see 60 miles to Mount Rainier from the 520-foot observation deck of this Seattle tower	Space Needle.

It's the common variety of worm seen here	earthworm.

This noted Philistine-slayer ruled Israel for 4 decades starting around 1000 B.C.	David.

In a poem titled "September 1" of this year, W.H.

Auden wrote, "The clever hopes expire of a low dishonest decade"	1939.

(Sofia of the Clue Crew on a ski slope in Colorado)  On the slopes, protect yourself from the A & B types of these; snow reflects about 80% of them	ultraviolet rays.

Prince drove this tiny title auto to No.

6 in 1983	"Little Red Corvette".

In 2001 you could have taken in performances of "Il Grande Gatsby" & "Turandot" at this famous opera house in Milan	La Scala.

Hirudinea medicinalis is a species of this bloodsucking worm used in medicine	leech.

Around 1720 B.C.

the Minoans were shaken up by this event that destroyed their palace at Knossos	earthquake.

Pastoral poetry portrays rural life, in particular this occupation for which Spenser wrote a "calendar"	shepherding.

Used for TV transmissions between 300 & 3,000 megahertz, it's abbreviated UHF	ultra high frequency.

This "Little" Beach Boys vehicle can "do a hundred & forty with the top end floored"	"Little Deuce Coupe".

Sand on the floor of the Virgin Islands' St.

Thomas Synagogue commemorates the Israelites' escape from this country	Egypt.

A worm that shares its name with this volcano-buried city lives in the scalding water of ocean vents	Pompeii.

Dying in 149 B.C.

finally stopped Roman statesman Cato from nagging, this African city "must be destroyed"	Carthage.

In 1650 Anne Bradstreet's poems appeared as "The Tenth" of these goddesses "lately sprung up in America"	Muses.

A deep blue pigment made from the mineral lapis lazuli	ultramarine.

(Cheryl of the Clue Crew at the Henry Ford Museum in Detroit)  In the opening to "All in the Family", Archie & Edith sang, "Gee, our old" one of these cars "ran great"	LaSalle.

Caesars Palace, the Luxor & the Excalibur lie on this boulevard nicknamed "The Strip"	Las Vegas Boulevard.

This disease in humans is caused by parasitic worms found in undercooked meat, usually pork	trichinosis.

He died violently around 3,000 B.C.

& lay in a glacier until he was found in 1991	the Iceman.

A stamp issued in 2002, for the 100th anniversary of his birth, included the full texts of 6 of his whimsical poems	Ogden Nash.

A single-seat aircraft powered by a small motor	ultralight.

In 1976 Rose Royce did the dirty work & went to No.

1 "employed" here (Whoa Whoa Whoa Whoa!)	"Car Wash".

The tossing of this very heavy, long wooden pole is a highlight of Scotland's Highland Games	caber.

"Dracula" author Bram Stoker also wrote the spooky & supernatural novel "The Lair of" this	the White Worm.

In the 1400s B.C.

Egypt ruled these supersailors of what's now Lebanon	Phoenicians.

Mamet's "American Buffalo" didn't premiere in Buffalo, but at the Goodman Theatre in this Midwest city	Chicago.

Winston Churchill's father had this name, from the Old English rand, "shield" & wulf, "wolf"	Randolph.

Regis' Ripa	Kelly.

This word comes before "propre" to mean self-love or vanity	amour.

With circulation not so "stellar", this 129-year-old Washington D.C.

paper folded in 1981	The Washington Star.

A World's Fair opened in this British Columbia city in May 1986 to great fanfare & a fainting spell by Princess Diana	Vancouver.

Who -- the Who; Where -- La Jolla Playhouse; When -- 1992; What -- this musical	Tommy.

This first name of one of the Olsen twins was the top girl's name of the 1990s	Ashley.

The fruit of Citrus aurantifolia	lime.

In French it's the first word of the pre-revolutionary phrase translated as "after us the deluge"	apres.

In a war of London papers for this title time of day, the News folded in 1980, leaving the Standard standing	evening.

The Okanagan Valley is a big producer of these, also the major fruit crop of Washington state, due south	apples.

Fittingly, this Neil Simon play was booked into the Ahmanson Theatre in L.A.

for its premiere in April 1976	California Suite.

The Claus in Santa Claus came from this name	Nicholas.

A rare variety of beryl valued as a gem	emerald.

French word for the accent over the E in Andre	accent aigu.

This paper went under in 1950, but a new version using the same logo seen here, debuted in 2002	New York Sun.

Yoho National Park, named for a Cree word for "awe", is in eastern B.C., in these mountains	Rockies.

The Philadelphia Theatre Co.'s play "Barbra's Wedding" by actor Daniel Stern was about trouble caused by her ceremony	Barbra Streisand.

Not using the diminutive, "Educating Rita" becomes "Educating" her	Margarita.

The river that flows through Cairo	Nile.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew in Paris)  The 7th of the Paris subdivisions called these is filled with government offices	arrondissements.

This St.

Louis newspaper was on its last legs in the 1870s when it merged with the Post	St.

Louis Dispatch.

City where you'll find the statue seen here	Victoria.

"Joe Turner's Come and Gone" by this playwright first came & went with the Yale Repertory	August Wilson.

Meaning "bright", it's the first name of the woman who brightened our TV screens yelling, "Where's the Beef?"	Clara Peller.

A small nonflowering plant, like hairy cap or peat	moss.

Literally "with the current", this phrase means "well informed"	au courant.

Publisher Sam Maxwell chose this imposing name for the Seattle paper that later merged with the Post	Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

"Climb the mountains and get their good tidings" was a goal of this group at its 19th century founding	Sierra Club.

The British shortened this term to "bolshie", which also came to mean stubborn & uncooperative	bolshevik.

(Oprah Winfrey reads the clue.) After tossing a hat into the air for a 1997 show, an homage to one of my heroes, this inspiration turned the world on with her smile & thrilled me by joining me onstage	Mary Tyler Moore.

Baby food: This brand that has a NatureSelect 2nd Foods line	Gerber.

"She brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in ____ clothes"	swaddling.

Scholars don't know the origin of this magic word; one theory is that it comes from Hebrew berakah, "blessing"	abracadabra.

Having decorative ruffles	frilly.

Around 1950 3 Southeast Asian states were given some autonomy, ending the union known as French this	Indochina.

(Oprah Winfrey reads the clue.) In a 1997 show, I got to live out one of my wildest fantasies by singing "Simply the Best" with this music icon who real name is Anna Mae Bullock	Tina Turner.

Ground coffee: This brand that's the best part of wakin' up	Folger's.

"For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own ____"	soul.

This term for a magician comes from Middle English for "wise"	wizard.

Composed of crags	hilly.

Support from laborers called descamisados, "shirtless ones", brought him to power in Argentina in 1946	Juan Peron.

(Oprah Winfrey reads the clue.) When I interviewed this actor, I got to tell him what it meant to me as a young girl to see an African American walk into the Academy Awards & take home the Best Actor prize	(Sidney) Poitier.

Dry cat food: This "mix"	Meow Mix.

"But when I became a man, I put away ____ things"	childish.

Gol-lee!  When Billy Batson spoke this word, he became Captain Marvel	shazam.

Its mother is a dam	a filly.

The 1992 Olympics in this Spanish city were the first boycott-free summer games in 20 years	Barcelona.

(Oprah Winfrey reads the clue.) This movie icon said to me his food company "started as a joke & just got out of control" & then he said "the terrible thing is it's outgrossing all my films"	Paul Newman.

Soft drink: Regular & low calorie	Coca-Cola.

"Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained ____ unawares"	angels.

This 2-word term originated in an old tale as a way to get into a locked cave	open sesame.

In Spanish it's frio	chilly.

The Nazis may have contrived the February 1933 burning of this parliament building, giving them more control	the Reichstag.

(Oprah Winfrey reads the clue.) I don't often get nervous before an interview, but the night before sitting down with this supreme female Motown talent, I've cried in my bathtub so I wouldn't break down on camera	Diana Ross.

Alkaline batteries: This brand's Coppertop	Duracell.

"For unto you is born this day in the city of ___ a saviour"	David.

The first part of this 2-word term used to make something transform comes from Italian for "soon"	presto chango.

2-word rhyming term meaning in a disorganized or unplanned way	willy-nilly.

The Libyan desert is actually the northeastern portion of this much larger desert	the Sahara.

1966:  "Nowhere Man"	The Beatles.

An electron on a higher than normal energy level is said to be this, like a "Price is Right" contestant	excited.

Lucille Ball popularized the short, curly style named for this dog breed	a poodle.

The Joads suffer loads of hardships as migrant farm workers in this classic	The Grapes of Wrath.

This water-loving South American snake that kills by constricting comes in 3 types: green, yellow & dark-spotted	an anaconda.

To find the last remaining bactrian camels in the wild, you'll have to travel to this Mongolian desert	the Gobi.

1974:  "Piano Man"	Billy Joel.

Of renewable energy sources, this type produces the USA's most electricity	hydroelectric.

This haircut named for a guy who died in 44 B.C.

is a short cut for a man, with longer bangs	a caeser.

More than one of the sons wished Fyodor dead in this Dostoyevsky novel: the crime is patricide	The Brothers Karamazov.

This 6-letter term means having a surface that is curved or rounded outward	convex.

The name of this desert comes from a Tswana word meaning "great thirst" or "waterless place"	the Kalahari.

1979 remake of the Sam & Dave hit:  "Soul Man"	The Blues Brothers.

In karate you might focus your energy with a kiai, which often produces one of these sounds	a shout (or yell).

A short, layered women's cut is named for thin elfin sprite	a pixie.

"I beheld the wretch--the miserable monster whom I had created" is a line in this classic	Frankenstein.

Bellow out the name of this instrument see here	a concertina.

Joseph Ives used some artistry to give a brilliantly colored section of Arizona this name	the Painted Desert.

1970: "Solitary Man"	Neil Diamond.

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew demonstrates.) When 1-pound steel spheres are smashed together, enough heat is generated to burn a hole in paper, illustrating the conversion of this type of energy into heat energy	mechanical (kinetic accepted).

An alteration of the name and the style of a punk haircut, it retains the hair on the sides	a faux hawk.

This 1929 novel follows 4 German youths into WWI; the silence is permanent for 3 of them	All Quiet on the Western Front.

This type of always dissatisfied person is the title of a 1604 play by John Marston	The Malcontent.

This desert ranges almost as far north as Albuquerque & as far south as Mexico's state of Zacatecas	the Chihuahuan (or the Sonoran).

2001: "Superman (It's Not Easy)"	Five For Fighting.

Exploring for this type of energy that utilizes the earth's heat can cause small earthquakes	geothermal.

Any style that takes a woman's long hair & piles it atop the head is known bv this 4-letter word	an updo.

The name of this Rabelais character comes from words meaning "all" & "thirsty"	Pantagruel.

Latin gives us this verb meaning "to depart suddenly & secretly, as to avoid capture"	to abscond.

His grave notes his 1842 West Point graduation, his time at Ft.

Sumter, Gettysburg & 2nd Bull Run, but does not mention sports	Abner Doubleday.

Of the Monica, the Rachel or the Phoebe, the rescue ship at the tale's end	the Rachel.

To mark his 18th birthday in 2002, this prince visited the sick & homeless to carry on the work of his late mother	Prince Harry.

KO the competition with this "Classic" soft drink company, symbol KO	Coca-Cola.

Installments of this controversial crime-based game include "San Andreas" & "Vice City"	Grand Theft Auto.

Office of Strategic Services	the United States.

"Memorable" battleship of 1898 (5)	the USS Maine.

Melville's subtitle for the first American edition	The Whale.

In 1996 he was "Livin' La Vida Loca" on Broadway, playing Marius in "Les Miz"	Ricky Martin.

For the ultimate in geek chic, get the TI-89 Titanium graphing calculator from this company, TXN	Texas Instruments.

In the '05 version of the EA title named for this ex-Raiders coach, Al Michaels does the play-by-play	John Madden.

Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti	Russia.

Dash-ing code creator born in 1791 (5)	Morse.

The harpooner from Kokovoko with the rad tats	Queequeg.

The website of this tennis "goddess" told us that she's 6'2", loves to write poetry & wants to go to Croatia	Venus Williams.

Spokesman Jeff Gordon sprays the fastlane with Halston Z-14 from this company, RDEN	Elizabeth Arden.

In "God of War", PlayStation 2 lets you play Kratos, a Greek warrior whose final fight is with this Greek god of war	Ares.

MI6	Britain.

Canada's fifth province (8)	Manitoba.

Salem, Massachusetts author to whom the 1851 novel is dedicated	Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Visitors to the Sundance Film Festival know that the Sundance Institute was founded by this man in 1981	Robert Redford.

Buy books at this company, BKS, which also goes under the B.

Dalton name	Barnes & Noble.

It's Master Chief versus the Covenant in the first version of this Xbox game named for a ring-like space station	Halo.

Mossad	Israel.

"Swamp Fox" Francis (6)	Marion.

The biblical prophet who's the subject of chapter 83	Jonah.

He wore a kilt when he married Madonna in a Scottish castle	Guy Ritchie.

Originally named Sound of Music, this company, BBY, still offers sound electronics & music	Best Buy.

This role-playing game out in 2004 returns to the "World" of Azeroth, where heroes like Leeroy Jenkins do battle	World of Warcraft.

Within the Oglaigh na h-Eireann: G2	Ireland.

A "Dolley" house (home to the Madisons) (10)	Montpelier.

Oskar Schindler is buried on Mount Zion in this city	Jerusalem.

He's the funny man who played the title role in the movie version of "The Cat in the Hat"	Mike Myers.

1984: To this "physician", for his books of playful rhymes, nonsense words & strange illustrations	Dr. Seuss.

This ditty about a pony-riding gentleman is Connecticut's state song	"Yankee Doodle".

Catch an express train to the Algarve from the Barreiro Station in this Iberian capital	Lisbon.

A cntrctd form of a wd or phrs., frm. the Ltn. for "shrtnd."	abbreviation.
